LeetCode/169-majority-element/problem.md, before:

# 169. Majority Element

<p>Given an array <code>nums</code> of size <code>n</code>, return <em>the majority element</em>.</p>

<p>The majority element is the element that appears more than <code>⌊n / 2⌋</code> times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [3,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
</pre><p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
</pre>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>n == nums.length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 5 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
  <li>The input is generated such that a majority element will exist in the array.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow-up:</strong> Could you solve the problem in linear time and in <code>O(1)</code> space?

---

# Solution

- [Brute Force Approach](#brute-force-approach)

## **Problem Overview: Majority Element**

## Description

Given an array `nums` of size `n`, return the majority element.

The majority element is the element that appears more than `floor(n / 2)` times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.

## Examples

**Example 1**  
Input: `nums = [3, 2, 3]`  
Output: `3`

**Example 2**  
Input: `nums = [2, 2, 1, 1, 1, 2, 2]`  
Output: `2`

## Constraints

- `n == nums.length`
- `1 <= n <= 5 * 10^4`
- `-10^9 <= nums[i] <= 10^9`
- The input is generated such that a majority element always exists.

## Follow-up

Can you solve the problem in linear time and in `O(1)` space?

# Brute Force Approach

We can exhaust the search space in quadratic time by checking whether each element is the majority element. The brute force approach iterates over the array, then iterates again for each number to count its occurrences. When the number is found to appear more than any other, return it.

Commit message:

feat(#169): Refine brute force intuition

LeetCode/169-majority-element/problem.md, after:

# 169. Majority Element

<p>Given an array <code>nums</code> of size <code>n</code>, return <em>the majority element</em>.</p>

<p>The majority element is the element that appears more than <code>⌊n / 2⌋</code> times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [3,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
</pre><p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
</pre>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>n == nums.length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 5 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
  <li>The input is generated such that a majority element will exist in the array.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow-up:</strong> Could you solve the problem in linear time and in <code>O(1)</code> space?

---

# Solution

- [Brute Force Approach](#brute-force-approach)

## **Problem Overview: Majority Element**

## Description

Given an array `nums` of size `n`, return the majority element.

The majority element is the element that appears more than `floor(n / 2)` times. You may assume that the majority element always exists in the array.

## Examples

**Example 1**  
Input: `nums = [3, 2, 3]`  
Output: `3`

**Example 2**  
Input: `nums = [2, 2, 1, 1, 1, 2, 2]`  
Output: `2`

## Constraints

- `n == nums.length`
- `1 <= n <= 5 * 10^4`
- `-10^9 <= nums[i] <= 10^9`
- The input is generated such that a majority element always exists.

## Follow-up

Can you solve the problem in linear time and in `O(1)` space?

# Brute Force Approach

## **Intuition**

To find the majority element, we can count the frequency of each element in the array. The element that appears more than `floor(n / 2)` times is guaranteed to exist, so we can return it once we find it.
