LeetCode/73-set-matrix-zeroes/problem.md, before:

# 73. Set Matrix Zeroes

<p>Given an <code>m x n</code> integer matrix <code>matrix</code>, if an element is <code>0</code>, set its entire row and column to <code>0</code>'s.</p>

<p>You must do it <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank">in place</a>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/73-1.jpg" style="width: 450px; height: 169px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> matrix = [[1,1,1],[1,0,1],[1,1,1]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [[1,0,1],[0,0,0],[1,0,1]]
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/73-2.jpg" style="width: 450px; height: 137px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> matrix = [[0,1,2,0],[3,4,5,2],[1,3,1,5]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [[0,0,0,0],[0,4,5,0],[0,3,1,0]]
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == matrix.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == matrix[0].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 200</code></li>
  <li><code>-2<sup>31</sup> &lt;= matrix[i][j] &lt;= 2<sup>31</sup> - 1</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Follow up:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li>A straightforward solution using <code>O(mn)</code> space is probably a bad idea.</li>
  <li>A simple improvement uses <code>O(m + n)</code> space, but still not the best solution.</li>
  <li>Could you devise a constant space solution?</li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Two Pass Matrix Zeroing(Naive Approach)](#two-pass-naive-approach)

### Two-Pass Matrix Zeroing (Naive)

This approach uses extra memory to record rows and columns with zeroes, completed in two passes.

## **Intuition**

If any cell in the matrix contains a zero, the entire row and column of that cell should be set to zero. All of the cells of this recorded row and column can be marked zero in the next iteration.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize Sets**: Use two sets to record the rows and columns that contain zeros.
2. **First Pass**: Iterate over the matrix to find cells with zeros and record their row and column indices in the sets.
3. **Second Pass**: Iterate over the matrix again and set cells to zero if their row or column is in the recorded sets.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

class Solution {
  public void setZeroes(int[][] matrix) {
    int R = matrix.length;
    int C = matrix[0].length;
    Set<Integer> rows = new HashSet<>();
    Set<Integer> cols = new HashSet<>();

    // First pass to find all rows and columns that contain zero
    for (int i = 0; i < R; i++) {
      for (int j = 0; j < C; j++) {
        if (matrix[i][j] == 0) {
          rows.add(i);
          cols.add(j);
        }
      }
    }

    // Second pass to set the cells to zero
    for (int i = 0; i < R; i++) {
      for (int j = 0; j < C; j++) {
        if (rows.contains(i) || cols.contains(j)) {
          matrix[i][j] = 0;
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function setZeroes(matrix: number[][]): void {
  const rows = new Set<number>();
  const cols = new Set<number>();
  const R = matrix.length;
  const C = matrix[0].length;

  // First pass to find zeros and mark rows and columns
  for (let i = 0; i < R; i++) {
    for (let j = 0; j < C; j++) {
      if (matrix[i][j] === 0) {
        rows.add(i);
        cols.add(j);
      }
    }
  }

  // Second pass to set matrix cells to zero
  for (let i = 0; i < R; i++) {
    for (let j = 0; j < C; j++) {
      if (rows.has(i) || cols.has(j)) {
        matrix[i][j] = 0;
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Commit message:

feat(#73): Add space complexity of 2-pass zeroing

LeetCode/73-set-matrix-zeroes/problem.md, after:

# 73. Set Matrix Zeroes

<p>Given an <code>m x n</code> integer matrix <code>matrix</code>, if an element is <code>0</code>, set its entire row and column to <code>0</code>'s.</p>

<p>You must do it <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank">in place</a>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/73-1.jpg" style="width: 450px; height: 169px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> matrix = [[1,1,1],[1,0,1],[1,1,1]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [[1,0,1],[0,0,0],[1,0,1]]
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/73-2.jpg" style="width: 450px; height: 137px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> matrix = [[0,1,2,0],[3,4,5,2],[1,3,1,5]]
<strong>Output:</strong> [[0,0,0,0],[0,4,5,0],[0,3,1,0]]
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == matrix.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == matrix[0].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 200</code></li>
  <li><code>-2<sup>31</sup> &lt;= matrix[i][j] &lt;= 2<sup>31</sup> - 1</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Follow up:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li>A straightforward solution using <code>O(mn)</code> space is probably a bad idea.</li>
  <li>A simple improvement uses <code>O(m + n)</code> space, but still not the best solution.</li>
  <li>Could you devise a constant space solution?</li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Two Pass Matrix Zeroing (Naive Approach)](#two-pass-naive-approach)

### Two-Pass Matrix Zeroing (Naive Approach)

This approach uses extra memory to record rows and columns with zeroes, completed in two passes.

## **Intuition**

If any cell in the matrix contains a zero, the entire row and column of that cell should be set to zero. All of the cells of this recorded row and column can be marked zero in the next iteration.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize Sets**: Use two sets to record the rows and columns that contain zeros.
2. **First Pass**: Iterate over the matrix to find cells with zeros and record their row and column indices in the sets.
3. **Second Pass**: Iterate over the matrix again and set cells to zero if their row or column is in the recorded sets.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

class Solution {
  public void setZeroes(int[][] matrix) {
    int R = matrix.length;
    int C = matrix[0].length;
    Set<Integer> rows = new HashSet<>();
    Set<Integer> cols = new HashSet<>();

    // First pass to find all rows and columns that contain zero
    for (int i = 0; i < R; i++) {
      for (int j = 0; j < C; j++) {
        if (matrix[i][j] == 0) {
          rows.add(i);
          cols.add(j);
        }
      }
    }

    // Second pass to set the cells to zero
    for (int i = 0; i < R; i++) {
      for (int j = 0; j < C; j++) {
        if (rows.contains(i) || cols.contains(j)) {
          matrix[i][j] = 0;
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function setZeroes(matrix: number[][]): void {
  const rows = new Set<number>();
  const cols = new Set<number>();
  const R = matrix.length;
  const C = matrix[0].length;

  // First pass to find zeros and mark rows and columns
  for (let i = 0; i < R; i++) {
    for (let j = 0; j < C; j++) {
      if (matrix[i][j] === 0) {
        rows.add(i);
        cols.add(j);
      }
    }
  }

  // Second pass to set matrix cells to zero
  for (let i = 0; i < R; i++) {
    for (let j = 0; j < C; j++) {
      if (rows.has(i) || cols.has(j)) {
        matrix[i][j] = 0;
      }
    }
  }
}
```


Given `R` and `C` are the number of rows and columns respectively in the matrix.

### **Space Complexity**

- The space complexity is determined by the additional space used to store the indices of rows and columns that contain zeros. In the worst case, all rows and columns may contain zeros, resulting in the space complexity being proportional to the sum of the number of rows and columns.
