LeetCode/63-unique-paths-ii/problem.md, before:

# 63. Unique Paths II

<p>You are given an <code>m x n</code> integer array <code>grid</code>. There is a robot initially located at the <b>top-left corner</b> (i.e., <code>grid[0][0]</code>). The robot tries to move to the <strong>bottom-right corner</strong> (i.e., <code>grid[m - 1][n - 1]</code>). The robot can only move either down or right at any point in time.</p>

<p>An obstacle and space are marked as <code>1</code> or <code>0</code> respectively in <code>grid</code>. A path that the robot takes cannot include <strong>any</strong> square that is an obstacle.</p>

<p>Return <em>the number of possible unique paths that the robot can take to reach the bottom-right corner</em>.</p>

<p>The testcases are generated so that the answer will be less than or equal to <code>2 * 10<sup>9</sup></code>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 242px; height: 242px;" src="img/63-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> obstacleGrid = [[0,0,0],[0,1,0],[0,0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There is one obstacle in the middle of the 3x3 grid above.
There are two ways to reach the bottom-right corner:
1. Right -&gt; Right -&gt; Down -&gt; Down
2. Down -&gt; Down -&gt; Right -&gt; Right
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 162px; height: 162px;" src="img/63-2.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> obstacleGrid = [[0,1],[0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == obstacleGrid.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == obstacleGrid[i].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 100</code></li>
  <li><code>obstacleGrid[i][j]</code> is <code>0</code> or <code>1</code>.</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(1)`

### Problem Overview: Unique Paths II

In the problem "Unique Paths II," you are given an `m x n` integer array called `grid`. A robot starts at the **top-left corner** of the grid (`grid[0][0]`) and aims to reach the **bottom-right corner** (`grid[m - 1][n - 1]`). The robot can only move either **down** or **right** at any point in time.

The `grid` contains obstacles and open spaces, where:
- `1` represents an obstacle
- `0` represents an open space

The robot must navigate through the grid without passing through any obstacles. Your task is to **return the number of unique paths** that the robot can take to reach the bottom-right corner.

The test cases are designed so that the number of unique paths will not exceed `2 * 10^9`.

#### Example 1:
![Example 1](img/63-1.jpg)
```
Input: obstacleGrid = [[0,0,0],[0,1,0],[0,0,0]]
Output: 2
Explanation: There is one obstacle in the middle of the 3x3 grid. The robot has two possible paths:
1. Right -> Right -> Down -> Down
2. Down -> Down -> Right -> Right
```

#### Example 2:
![Example 2](img/63-2.jpg)
```
Input: obstacleGrid = [[0,1],[0,0]]
Output: 1
```

#### Constraints:
- `m == obstacleGrid.length`
- `n == obstacleGrid[i].length`
- `1 <= m, n <= 100`
- `obstacleGrid[i][j]` is `0` or `1`

# Dynamic Programming Approach

## **Intuition**

- The robot can only move either **down** or **right**.
  - Any cell in the first row can only be reached from the cell to its left.
  - Any cell in the first column can only be reached from the cell above it.
- For any other cell in the grid, it can be reached either from:
  - The cell to its left, or
  - The cell above it.
- If any cell has an obstacle, it won't contribute to any path.

### **Initial Conditions**
- If the starting cell `(grid[0][0])` has an obstacle, there are no valid paths.
- Similarly, if the bottom-right cell `(grid[m-1][n-1])` has an obstacle, the destination is unreachable.

### **Iteration**
- Iterate through the array **left-to-right** and **top-to-bottom**.
  - Before reaching any cell, the number of ways to reach the preceding cells is known.
  - This is what makes it a Dynamic Programming problem.

### **Space Optimization**
- Use the `obstacleGrid` array as the DP array to avoid using additional space.

### **Edge Cases**
- If either `m` or `n` is 1, the robot can only move in a straight line (if there are no obstacles in its path).
- If all cells are obstacles except for the starting and ending cells, there will be no valid paths.

### **Transition Function**
- For each cell `(i, j)`, if `grid[i][j] == 1`, then `dp[i][j] = 0`.
- Otherwise, update `dp[i][j]` as:
  \[
  dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j] + dp[i][j-1]
  \]
  This formula effectively sums the number of ways to reach the cell `(i, j)` from the cells directly above and to the left.

### **Final Output**
- The final number of unique paths to the bottom-right corner will be stored in `dp[m-1][n-1]`.

## **Algorithm**

### **Step 1: Check Initial Cell**
1. If the first cell (`obstacleGrid[0][0]`) contains `1`, it indicates an obstacle blocking the starting point. Since the robot cannot make any moves, the number of possible paths is `0`. Return `0` in this case.

### **Step 2: Initialize Starting Cell**
2. Otherwise, assign `1` to `obstacleGrid[0][0]` to mark the starting cell as accessible.

#### **Step 3: Iterate Through the First Row**
3. For each cell in the first row:
   - If the cell contains `1`, it represents an obstacle, so set its value to `0`.  
   - Otherwise, set its value to the previous cell's value: `obstacleGrid[0][j] = obstacleGrid[0][j-1]`.

#### **Step 4: Iterate Through the First Column**
4. For each cell in the first column:
   - If the cell contains `1`, it represents an obstacle, so set its value to `0`.  
   - Otherwise, set its value to the previous cell's value: `obstacleGrid[i][0] = obstacleGrid[i-1][0]`..

#### **Step 5: Traverse the Grid**
5. Iterate through the grid starting from `obstacleGrid[1][1]`:
   - If the cell is not an obstacle, update its value to the sum of the cell above and the cell to the left:
     \[
     obstacleGrid[i][j] = obstacleGrid[i-1][j] + obstacleGrid[i][j-1]
     \]

#### **Step 6: Mark Obstacles**
6. If a cell contains an obstacle, set its value to `0` to ensure it doesn't contribute to any path.

### **Assumptions:**
- We have a grid of dimensions `m * n`.
- The robot can move either down or right at any point in time.
- We are storing the number of paths to reach each cell in a 2D array.

### **Space Complexity:** `O(m * n)`
- **2D Array Storage:**
  - We use a 2D array `dp` with dimensions `m * n` to store the number of paths to each cell.
  - The space required for this array is `O(m * n)`.
- Handling obstacles does not require any extra space beyond the original grid dimensions.

Commit message:

feat(#63): Add DP time complexity analysis

LeetCode/63-unique-paths-ii/problem.md, after:

# 63. Unique Paths II

<p>You are given an <code>m x n</code> integer array <code>grid</code>. There is a robot initially located at the <b>top-left corner</b> (i.e., <code>grid[0][0]</code>). The robot tries to move to the <strong>bottom-right corner</strong> (i.e., <code>grid[m - 1][n - 1]</code>). The robot can only move either down or right at any point in time.</p>

<p>An obstacle and space are marked as <code>1</code> or <code>0</code> respectively in <code>grid</code>. A path that the robot takes cannot include <strong>any</strong> square that is an obstacle.</p>

<p>Return <em>the number of possible unique paths that the robot can take to reach the bottom-right corner</em>.</p>

<p>The testcases are generated so that the answer will be less than or equal to <code>2 * 10<sup>9</sup></code>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 242px; height: 242px;" src="img/63-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> obstacleGrid = [[0,0,0],[0,1,0],[0,0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There is one obstacle in the middle of the 3x3 grid above.
There are two ways to reach the bottom-right corner:
1. Right -&gt; Right -&gt; Down -&gt; Down
2. Down -&gt; Down -&gt; Right -&gt; Right
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 162px; height: 162px;" src="img/63-2.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> obstacleGrid = [[0,1],[0,0]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 1
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == obstacleGrid.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == obstacleGrid[i].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 100</code></li>
  <li><code>obstacleGrid[i][j]</code> is <code>0</code> or <code>1</code>.</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(m x n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(1)`

### Problem Overview: Unique Paths II

In the problem "Unique Paths II," you are given an `m x n` integer array called `grid`. A robot starts at the **top-left corner** of the grid (`grid[0][0]`) and aims to reach the **bottom-right corner** (`grid[m - 1][n - 1]`). The robot can only move either **down** or **right** at any point in time.

The `grid` contains obstacles and open spaces, where:
- `1` represents an obstacle
- `0` represents an open space

The robot must navigate through the grid without passing through any obstacles. Your task is to **return the number of unique paths** that the robot can take to reach the bottom-right corner.

The test cases are designed so that the number of unique paths will not exceed `2 * 10^9`.

#### Example 1:
![Example 1](img/63-1.jpg)
```
Input: obstacleGrid = [[0,0,0],[0,1,0],[0,0,0]]
Output: 2
Explanation: There is one obstacle in the middle of the 3x3 grid. The robot has two possible paths:
1. Right -> Right -> Down -> Down
2. Down -> Down -> Right -> Right
```

#### Example 2:
![Example 2](img/63-2.jpg)
```
Input: obstacleGrid = [[0,1],[0,0]]
Output: 1
```

#### Constraints:
- `m == obstacleGrid.length`
- `n == obstacleGrid[i].length`
- `1 <= m, n <= 100`
- `obstacleGrid[i][j]` is `0` or `1`

# Dynamic Programming Approach

## **Intuition**

- The robot can only move either **down** or **right**.
  - Any cell in the first row can only be reached from the cell to its left.
  - Any cell in the first column can only be reached from the cell above it.
- For any other cell in the grid, it can be reached either from:
  - The cell to its left, or
  - The cell above it.
- If any cell has an obstacle, it won't contribute to any path.

### **Initial Conditions**
- If the starting cell `(grid[0][0])` has an obstacle, there are no valid paths.
- Similarly, if the bottom-right cell `(grid[m-1][n-1])` has an obstacle, the destination is unreachable.

### **Iteration**
- Iterate through the array **left-to-right** and **top-to-bottom**.
  - Before reaching any cell, the number of ways to reach the preceding cells is known.
  - This is what makes it a Dynamic Programming problem.

### **Space Optimization**
- Use the `obstacleGrid` array as the DP array to avoid using additional space.

### **Edge Cases**
- If either `m` or `n` is 1, the robot can only move in a straight line (if there are no obstacles in its path).
- If all cells are obstacles except for the starting and ending cells, there will be no valid paths.

### **Transition Function**
- For each cell `(i, j)`, if `grid[i][j] == 1`, then `dp[i][j] = 0`.
- Otherwise, update `dp[i][j]` as:
  \[
  dp[i][j] = dp[i-1][j] + dp[i][j-1]
  \]
  This formula effectively sums the number of ways to reach the cell `(i, j)` from the cells directly above and to the left.

### **Final Output**
- The final number of unique paths to the bottom-right corner will be stored in `dp[m-1][n-1]`.

## **Algorithm**

### **Step 1: Check Initial Cell**
1. If the first cell (`obstacleGrid[0][0]`) contains `1`, it indicates an obstacle blocking the starting point. Since the robot cannot make any moves, the number of possible paths is `0`. Return `0` in this case.

### **Step 2: Initialize Starting Cell**
2. Otherwise, assign `1` to `obstacleGrid[0][0]` to mark the starting cell as accessible.

#### **Step 3: Iterate Through the First Row**
3. For each cell in the first row:
   - If the cell contains `1`, it represents an obstacle, so set its value to `0`.  
   - Otherwise, set its value to the previous cell's value: `obstacleGrid[0][j] = obstacleGrid[0][j-1]`.

#### **Step 4: Iterate Through the First Column**
4. For each cell in the first column:
   - If the cell contains `1`, it represents an obstacle, so set its value to `0`.  
   - Otherwise, set its value to the previous cell's value: `obstacleGrid[i][0] = obstacleGrid[i-1][0]`..

#### **Step 5: Traverse the Grid**
5. Iterate through the grid starting from `obstacleGrid[1][1]`:
   - If the cell is not an obstacle, update its value to the sum of the cell above and the cell to the left:
     \[
     obstacleGrid[i][j] = obstacleGrid[i-1][j] + obstacleGrid[i][j-1]
     \]

#### **Step 6: Mark Obstacles**
6. If a cell contains an obstacle, set its value to `0` to ensure it doesn't contribute to any path.

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions:**
- We have a grid of dimensions `m * n`.
- The robot can move either down or right at any point in time.
- We are storing the number of paths to reach each cell in a 2D array.

### **Time Complexity:** `O(m * n)`
- **Initialization:**
  - Initializing the 2D array `dp` to dimensions `m * n` takes `O(m * n)`.
- **Filling the 2D Array:**
  - We iterate through each cell in the grid exactly once.
  - For each cell `(i, j)`, we perform a constant time operation to calculate `dp[i][j]`.
  - Even with obstacles, each cell is only processed once.
  - Therefore, the time complexity for filling the array is `O(m * n)`.

### **Space Complexity:** `O(m * n)`
- **2D Array Storage:**
  - We use a 2D array `dp` with dimensions `m * n` to store the number of paths to each cell.
  - The space required for this array is `O(m * n)`.
- Handling obstacles does not require any extra space beyond the original grid dimensions.
