LeetCode/80-remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii/problem.md, before:

# 80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

<p>Given an integer array <code>nums</code> sorted in <strong>non-decreasing order</strong>, remove some duplicates <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank"><strong>in-place</strong></a> such that each unique element appears <strong>at most twice</strong>. The <strong>relative order</strong> of the elements should be kept the <strong>same</strong>.</p>

<p>Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the <strong>first part</strong> of the array <code>nums</code>. More formally, if there are <code>k</code> elements after removing the duplicates, then the first <code>k</code> elements of <code>nums</code>&nbsp;should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first&nbsp;<code>k</code>&nbsp;elements.</p>

<p>Return <code>k</code><em> after placing the final result in the first </em><code>k</code><em> slots of </em><code>nums</code>.</p>

<p>Do <strong>not</strong> allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by <strong>modifying the input array <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank">in-place</a></strong> with O(1) extra memory.</p>

<p><strong>Custom Judge:</strong></p>

<p>The judge will test your solution with the following code:</p>

<pre>int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i &lt; k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
</pre>

<p>If all assertions pass, then your solution will be <strong>accepted</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 3 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>4</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>nums</code> is sorted in <strong>non-decreasing</strong> order.</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [In-Place Overwrite Approach](#in-place-overwrite-approach)

### Problem Overview
**Problem Name:** Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

**Goal:**
- Given an integer array `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, modify the array in-place such that each unique element appears at most twice. 
- The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.
- The result should be placed in the first part of the array `nums`.

**Requirements:**
- You cannot allocate extra space for another array.
- Modify the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

**Output:**
- Return `k` after placing the final result in the first `k` slots of `nums`.

**Explanation:**
- If there are `k` elements after removing the duplicates, then the first `k` elements of `nums` should hold the final result.
- It does not matter what is left beyond the first `k` elements.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 30,000`
- `-10,000 <= nums[i] <= 10,000`
- `nums` is sorted in non-decreasing order.

### Examples

**Example 1:**
- **Input:** `nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]`
- **Output:** `5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]`
- **Explanation:** The function should return `k = 5`, with the first five elements of `nums` being `1, 1, 2, 2, 3` respectively. The underscores represent the elements beyond `k` which do not matter.

**Example 2:**
- **Input:** `nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]`
- **Output:** `7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]`
- **Explanation:** The function should return `k = 7`, with the first seven elements of `nums` being `0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 3` respectively. The underscores represent the elements beyond `k` which do not matter.

The solution requires ensuring that no element appears more than twice while maintaining the order of elements in the array.

# In-Place Overwrite Approach

## **Intuition**

The need to return the new length of the array as indicated by the problem statement hints at an interesting perspective: rather than focusing on removing elements, we can achieve our goal by overwriting unwanted duplicates directly within the array.

This means that, for each element that appears more than twice, we'll replace the extra occurrences with elements that come afterward while preserving the order of unique elements.

To efficiently achieve this, we will use a two-pointer technique:
- One pointer will traverse through each element in the original array.
- The other pointer will track the next available slot for an element, ensuring that no more than two duplicates remain.

This ensures that we keep the desired elements up to the required length while efficiently managing space within the array.

## **Approach:**

1. **Initialize Two Pointers:**
   - The first pointer iterates over the array to examine each element.
   - The second pointer points to the next position in the array that can be overwritten or replaced.

2. **Iterate Through the Array:**
   - Move the first pointer through each element in the array.
   - Track the count of each element.

3. **Overwrite Unwanted Duplicates:**
   - If an element has already appeared twice, skip adding it to the result.
   - If an element appears fewer than or equal to twice, overwrite the position indicated by the second pointer and increment the pointer.

4. **Return the Updated Length:**
   - The second pointer will give us the final length of the array after in-place modification.

### Example:

**Input:** `nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]`

**Output:** `k = 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]`

The two-pointer method efficiently overwrites and arranges the elements to ensure that no element appears more than twice within the array while keeping the order intact.

Commit message:

feat(#80): Cover initialization & first iteration

LeetCode/80-remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array-ii/problem.md, after:

# 80. Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

<p>Given an integer array <code>nums</code> sorted in <strong>non-decreasing order</strong>, remove some duplicates <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank"><strong>in-place</strong></a> such that each unique element appears <strong>at most twice</strong>. The <strong>relative order</strong> of the elements should be kept the <strong>same</strong>.</p>

<p>Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the <strong>first part</strong> of the array <code>nums</code>. More formally, if there are <code>k</code> elements after removing the duplicates, then the first <code>k</code> elements of <code>nums</code>&nbsp;should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first&nbsp;<code>k</code>&nbsp;elements.</p>

<p>Return <code>k</code><em> after placing the final result in the first </em><code>k</code><em> slots of </em><code>nums</code>.</p>

<p>Do <strong>not</strong> allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by <strong>modifying the input array <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-place_algorithm" target="_blank">in-place</a></strong> with O(1) extra memory.</p>

<p><strong>Custom Judge:</strong></p>

<p>The judge will test your solution with the following code:</p>

<pre>int[] nums = [...]; // Input array
int[] expectedNums = [...]; // The expected answer with correct length

int k = removeDuplicates(nums); // Calls your implementation

assert k == expectedNums.length;
for (int i = 0; i &lt; k; i++) {
    assert nums[i] == expectedNums[i];
}
</pre>

<p>If all assertions pass, then your solution will be <strong>accepted</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Your function should return k = 5, with the first five elements of nums being 1, 1, 2, 2 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Your function should return k = 7, with the first seven elements of nums being 0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3 and 3 respectively.
It does not matter what you leave beyond the returned k (hence they are underscores).
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 3 * 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>4</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>nums</code> is sorted in <strong>non-decreasing</strong> order.</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [In-Place Overwrite Approach](#in-place-overwrite-approach)

### Problem Overview
**Problem Name:** Remove Duplicates from Sorted Array II

**Goal:**
- Given an integer array `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, modify the array in-place such that each unique element appears at most twice. 
- The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.
- The result should be placed in the first part of the array `nums`.

**Requirements:**
- You cannot allocate extra space for another array.
- Modify the input array in-place with O(1) extra memory.

**Output:**
- Return `k` after placing the final result in the first `k` slots of `nums`.

**Explanation:**
- If there are `k` elements after removing the duplicates, then the first `k` elements of `nums` should hold the final result.
- It does not matter what is left beyond the first `k` elements.

**Constraints:**
- `1 <= nums.length <= 30,000`
- `-10,000 <= nums[i] <= 10,000`
- `nums` is sorted in non-decreasing order.

### Examples

**Example 1:**
- **Input:** `nums = [1,1,1,2,2,3]`
- **Output:** `5, nums = [1,1,2,2,3,_]`
- **Explanation:** The function should return `k = 5`, with the first five elements of `nums` being `1, 1, 2, 2, 3` respectively. The underscores represent the elements beyond `k` which do not matter.

**Example 2:**
- **Input:** `nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]`
- **Output:** `7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]`
- **Explanation:** The function should return `k = 7`, with the first seven elements of `nums` being `0, 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 3` respectively. The underscores represent the elements beyond `k` which do not matter.

The solution requires ensuring that no element appears more than twice while maintaining the order of elements in the array.

# In-Place Overwrite Approach

## **Intuition**

The need to return the new length of the array as indicated by the problem statement hints at an interesting perspective: rather than focusing on removing elements, we can achieve our goal by overwriting unwanted duplicates directly within the array.

This means that, for each element that appears more than twice, we'll replace the extra occurrences with elements that come afterward while preserving the order of unique elements.

To efficiently achieve this, we will use a two-pointer technique:
- One pointer will traverse through each element in the original array.
- The other pointer will track the next available slot for an element, ensuring that no more than two duplicates remain.

This ensures that we keep the desired elements up to the required length while efficiently managing space within the array.

## **Approach:**

1. **Initialize Two Pointers:**
   - The first pointer iterates over the array to examine each element.
   - The second pointer points to the next position in the array that can be overwritten or replaced.

2. **Iterate Through the Array:**
   - Move the first pointer through each element in the array.
   - Track the count of each element.

3. **Overwrite Unwanted Duplicates:**
   - If an element has already appeared twice, skip adding it to the result.
   - If an element appears fewer than or equal to twice, overwrite the position indicated by the second pointer and increment the pointer.

4. **Return the Updated Length:**
   - The second pointer will give us the final length of the array after in-place modification.

### **Example**:

**Input:** `nums = [0,0,1,1,1,1,2,3,3]`
**Expected Output:** `k = 7, nums = [0,0,1,1,2,3,3,_,_]`

#### Steps:

1. **Initialization:**
   - Initialize pointers: `i = 1`, `j = 1`
   - Initialize `count = 1` (since the first element `nums[0]` is always counted once)

2. **First Iteration (i = 1):**
   - Current element: `nums[1] = 0`
   - Since `nums[1] == nums[0]`, increment `count` to `2`.
   - Since `count <= 2`, copy `nums[1]` to `nums[j]` (which is the same value at this step).
   - Increment `j` to `2`.
