LeetCode/71-simplify-path/problem.md, before:

# 71. Simplify Path

<p>You are given an <em>absolute</em> path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash <code>'/'</code>. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its <strong>simplified canonical path</strong>.</p>

<p>The <em>rules</em> of a Unix-style file system are as follows:</p>

<ul>
  <li>A single period <code>'.'</code> represents the current directory.</li>
  <li>A double period <code>'..'</code> represents the previous/parent directory.</li>
  <li>Multiple consecutive slashes such as <code>'//'</code> and <code>'///'</code> are treated as a single slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>Any sequence of periods that does <strong>not match</strong> the rules above should be treated as a <strong>valid directory or</strong> <strong>file </strong><strong>name</strong>. For example, <code>'...' </code>and <code>'....'</code> are valid directory or file names.</li>
</ul>

<p>The simplified canonical path should follow these <em>rules</em>:</p>

<ul>
  <li>The path must start with a single slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>The path must not end with a slash <code>'/'</code>, unless it is the root directory.</li>
  <li>The path must not have any single or double periods (<code>'.'</code> and <code>'..'</code>) used to denote current or parent directories.</li>
</ul>

<p>Return the <strong>simplified canonical path</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>The trailing slash should be removed.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home//foo/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home/foo"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>Multiple consecutive slashes are replaced by a single one.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home/user/Documents/../Pictures"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home/user/Pictures"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>A double period <code>".."</code> refers to the directory up a level (the parent directory).</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 4:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/../"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>Going one level up from the root directory is not possible.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 5:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/.../a/../b/c/../d/./"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/.../b/d"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p><code>"..."</code> is a valid name for a directory in this problem.</p>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= path.length &lt;= 3000</code></li>
  <li><code>path</code> consists of English letters, digits, period <code>'.'</code>, slash <code>'/'</code> or <code>'_'</code>.</li>
  <li><code>path</code> is a valid absolute Unix path.</li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Stack Approach](#stack-approach)

## Problem Overview

You are given an absolute path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash '/'. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its simplified canonical path.

**Rules of a Unix-style file system:**

1. A single period `.` represents the current directory.
2. A double period `..` represents the previous/parent directory.
3. Multiple consecutive slashes such as `//` and `///` are treated as a single slash `/`.
4. Any sequence of periods that does not match the rules above should be treated as a valid directory or file name. For example, `...` and `....` are valid directory or file names.

**Simplified canonical path should follow these rules:**

1. The path must start with a single slash `/`.
2. Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash `/`.
3. The path must not end with a slash `/`, unless it is the root directory.
4. The path must not have any single or double periods (`.` and `..`) used to denote current or parent directories.

Return the simplified canonical path.

# Stack Approach

## **Intuition**

This problem mimics the functionality of the `cd` command in Unix-like operating systems, which helps users navigate directories. While the `cd` command allows for various combinations of directory navigation, our implementation needs to correctly handle all special characters and scenarios. For example, when navigating from `/a/b/c` to `/a/b/c/..`, the `..` signifies moving up one directory level to `/a/b`. The core idea is to utilize a stack to handle these movements effectively. Here's a more structured representation of the problem and the approach to solve it.

![Tree representation of a simple directory path in Unix](img/71-1.jpg)

### Example

Consider the input path `/a//b/c/../././//d`:
- Split into components: `['', 'a', '', 'b', 'c', '..', '.', '.', '', '', 'd']`
- Process each component:
  - `''` -> skip
  - `a` -> push `a`
  - `''` -> skip
  - `b` -> push `b`
  - `c` -> push `c`
  - `..` -> pop `c`
  - `.` -> skip
  - `.` -> skip
  - `''` -> skip
  - `''` -> skip
  - `d` -> push `d`
- Final stack: `['a', 'b', 'd']`
- Simplified path: `/a/b/d`

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - Create an empty stack `s` to store the valid directory names.
   
2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - Split the input string by the delimiter `/`. This step converts the path into components, where each component is either a directory name or a special character.
   
3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through the split components:
     - If the component is `.` or an empty string, continue to the next component as they signify the current directory or multiple slashes.
     - If the component is `..`, pop the top element from the stack if it's not empty. This signifies moving up one directory level.
     - Otherwise, push the component onto the stack as it represents a valid directory name.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - After processing all components, join the elements in the stack with `/` to form the simplified canonical path.
   - Ensure the path starts with `/`.

### **Pseudocode**

```
function simplifyPath(path: string) -> string:
    # Step 1: Initialize the stack
    stack = []

    # Step 2: Split the input path by '/'
    components = split(path, '/')

    # Step 3: Process each component
    for each component in components:
        if component == "" or component == ".":
            # Skip empty components and current directory
            continue
        elif component == "..":
            # Pop from stack if it's not empty (move up one directory level)
            if stack is not empty:
                pop(stack)
        else:
            # Push the valid directory name to the stack
            push(stack, component)

    # Step 4: Construct the simplified path
    simplifiedPath = join(stack, "/")
    
    # Ensure path starts with '/'
    return "/" + simplifiedPath
```

### Explanation:

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - Create an empty stack to store directory names.

2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - Split the input string by `/` to get the components.

3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through the components:
     - Skip empty components and current directory (`.`).
     - If the component is `..`, pop from the stack if it's not empty (move up one directory level).
     - Push valid directory names to the stack.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - Join the elements in the stack with `/` to form the simplified canonical path.
   - Ensure the path starts with `/`.

### Example:
Given the input path `/a//b/c/../././//d`:

- Split components: `['', 'a', '', 'b', 'c', '..', '.', '.', '', '', 'd']`
- Processed stack: `['a', 'b', 'd']`
- Simplified path: `/a/b/d`

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.Stack;

class Solution {
  public String simplifyPath(String path) {
    // Initialize a stack to keep track of valid directory names
    Stack<String> stack = new Stack<>();

    // Split the input path by "/" to get individual components
    String[] components = path.split("/");

    for (String directory : components) {
      // Ignore "." (current directory) or empty components resulting from multiple slashes
      if (!directory.equals(".") && !directory.isEmpty()) {
        if (directory.equals("..")) {
          // Pop the stack if ".." (parent directory) is encountered and the stack is not empty
          if (!stack.isEmpty()) {
            stack.pop();
          }
        } else {
          // Push valid directory names onto the stack
          stack.add(directory);
        }
      }
    }

    // Construct the simplified path from the stack elements
    StringBuilder simplifiedPath = new StringBuilder();
    for (String dir : stack) {
      simplifiedPath.append("/");
      simplifiedPath.append(dir);
    }

    // Ensure the path starts with "/" and handles the root directory case
    return simplifiedPath.length() > 0 ? simplifiedPath.toString() : "/";
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function simplifyPath(path: string): string {
  // Initialize a stack to keep track of valid directory names
  const stack: string[] = [];

  // Split the input path by "/" to get individual components
  const components = path.split("/");

  for (const directory of components) {
    // Ignore "." (current directory) or empty components resulting from multiple slashes
    if (directory === "." || directory === "") {
      continue;
    } else if (directory === "..") {
      // Pop the stack if ".." (parent directory) is encountered and the stack is not empty
      if (stack.length > 0) {
        stack.pop();
      }
    } else {
      // Push valid directory names onto the stack
      stack.push(directory);
    }
  }

  // Construct the simplified path from the stack elements
  const simplifiedPath = "/" + stack.join("/");

  // Return the simplified canonical path
  return simplifiedPath;
};
```

### Explanation

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - `const stack: string[] = [];`: Creates an empty stack to keep track of valid directory names.

2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - `const components = path.split("/");`: Splits the input string by `/` to get individual components.

3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through each `directory` in `components`:
     - `if (directory === "." || directory === "")`: Ignore `.` and empty components.
     - `else if (directory === "..")`: If `..` is encountered and the stack is not empty, pop the stack.
     - `else`: Push valid directory names onto the stack.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - `const simplifiedPath = "/" + stack.join("/");`: Concatenate the stack elements with `/` to form the simplified path.

### Key Points:
- The `split` method is used to break the path into components.
- A stack is employed to keep track of the directory names, handling special cases for `.` and `..`.
- The final simplified path is constructed by joining the stack elements with a `/`.


### **Space Complexity**: `O(N)`

The space complexity of this algorithm is `O(N)`.

1. **Storage for Split Components**: We store the components of the path after splitting it, which requires `O(N)` space.

2. **Stack Storage**: In the worst case, all components of the path could be legitimate directory names, resulting in each component being pushed onto the stack. This requires additional `O(N)` space.

Therefore, the overall space complexity is `O(N) + O(N) = O(2N)`, which simplifies to `O(N)`.

Commit message:

feat(#71): Add time complexity of stack approach

LeetCode/71-simplify-path/problem.md, after:

# 71. Simplify Path

<p>You are given an <em>absolute</em> path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash <code>'/'</code>. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its <strong>simplified canonical path</strong>.</p>

<p>The <em>rules</em> of a Unix-style file system are as follows:</p>

<ul>
  <li>A single period <code>'.'</code> represents the current directory.</li>
  <li>A double period <code>'..'</code> represents the previous/parent directory.</li>
  <li>Multiple consecutive slashes such as <code>'//'</code> and <code>'///'</code> are treated as a single slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>Any sequence of periods that does <strong>not match</strong> the rules above should be treated as a <strong>valid directory or</strong> <strong>file </strong><strong>name</strong>. For example, <code>'...' </code>and <code>'....'</code> are valid directory or file names.</li>
</ul>

<p>The simplified canonical path should follow these <em>rules</em>:</p>

<ul>
  <li>The path must start with a single slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash <code>'/'</code>.</li>
  <li>The path must not end with a slash <code>'/'</code>, unless it is the root directory.</li>
  <li>The path must not have any single or double periods (<code>'.'</code> and <code>'..'</code>) used to denote current or parent directories.</li>
</ul>

<p>Return the <strong>simplified canonical path</strong>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>The trailing slash should be removed.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home//foo/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home/foo"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>Multiple consecutive slashes are replaced by a single one.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/home/user/Documents/../Pictures"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/home/user/Pictures"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>A double period <code>".."</code> refers to the directory up a level (the parent directory).</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 4:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/../"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>Going one level up from the root directory is not possible.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 5:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">path = "/.../a/../b/c/../d/./"</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">"/.../b/d"</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p><code>"..."</code> is a valid name for a directory in this problem.</p>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= path.length &lt;= 3000</code></li>
  <li><code>path</code> consists of English letters, digits, period <code>'.'</code>, slash <code>'/'</code> or <code>'_'</code>.</li>
  <li><code>path</code> is a valid absolute Unix path.</li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Stack Approach](#stack-approach)

## Problem Overview

You are given an absolute path for a Unix-style file system, which always begins with a slash '/'. Your task is to transform this absolute path into its simplified canonical path.

**Rules of a Unix-style file system:**

1. A single period `.` represents the current directory.
2. A double period `..` represents the previous/parent directory.
3. Multiple consecutive slashes such as `//` and `///` are treated as a single slash `/`.
4. Any sequence of periods that does not match the rules above should be treated as a valid directory or file name. For example, `...` and `....` are valid directory or file names.

**Simplified canonical path should follow these rules:**

1. The path must start with a single slash `/`.
2. Directories within the path must be separated by exactly one slash `/`.
3. The path must not end with a slash `/`, unless it is the root directory.
4. The path must not have any single or double periods (`.` and `..`) used to denote current or parent directories.

Return the simplified canonical path.

# Stack Approach

## **Intuition**

This problem mimics the functionality of the `cd` command in Unix-like operating systems, which helps users navigate directories. While the `cd` command allows for various combinations of directory navigation, our implementation needs to correctly handle all special characters and scenarios. For example, when navigating from `/a/b/c` to `/a/b/c/..`, the `..` signifies moving up one directory level to `/a/b`. The core idea is to utilize a stack to handle these movements effectively. Here's a more structured representation of the problem and the approach to solve it.

![Tree representation of a simple directory path in Unix](img/71-1.jpg)

### Example

Consider the input path `/a//b/c/../././//d`:
- Split into components: `['', 'a', '', 'b', 'c', '..', '.', '.', '', '', 'd']`
- Process each component:
  - `''` -> skip
  - `a` -> push `a`
  - `''` -> skip
  - `b` -> push `b`
  - `c` -> push `c`
  - `..` -> pop `c`
  - `.` -> skip
  - `.` -> skip
  - `''` -> skip
  - `''` -> skip
  - `d` -> push `d`
- Final stack: `['a', 'b', 'd']`
- Simplified path: `/a/b/d`

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - Create an empty stack `s` to store the valid directory names.
   
2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - Split the input string by the delimiter `/`. This step converts the path into components, where each component is either a directory name or a special character.
   
3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through the split components:
     - If the component is `.` or an empty string, continue to the next component as they signify the current directory or multiple slashes.
     - If the component is `..`, pop the top element from the stack if it's not empty. This signifies moving up one directory level.
     - Otherwise, push the component onto the stack as it represents a valid directory name.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - After processing all components, join the elements in the stack with `/` to form the simplified canonical path.
   - Ensure the path starts with `/`.

### **Pseudocode**

```
function simplifyPath(path: string) -> string:
    # Step 1: Initialize the stack
    stack = []

    # Step 2: Split the input path by '/'
    components = split(path, '/')

    # Step 3: Process each component
    for each component in components:
        if component == "" or component == ".":
            # Skip empty components and current directory
            continue
        elif component == "..":
            # Pop from stack if it's not empty (move up one directory level)
            if stack is not empty:
                pop(stack)
        else:
            # Push the valid directory name to the stack
            push(stack, component)

    # Step 4: Construct the simplified path
    simplifiedPath = join(stack, "/")
    
    # Ensure path starts with '/'
    return "/" + simplifiedPath
```

### Explanation:

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - Create an empty stack to store directory names.

2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - Split the input string by `/` to get the components.

3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through the components:
     - Skip empty components and current directory (`.`).
     - If the component is `..`, pop from the stack if it's not empty (move up one directory level).
     - Push valid directory names to the stack.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - Join the elements in the stack with `/` to form the simplified canonical path.
   - Ensure the path starts with `/`.

### Example:
Given the input path `/a//b/c/../././//d`:

- Split components: `['', 'a', '', 'b', 'c', '..', '.', '.', '', '', 'd']`
- Processed stack: `['a', 'b', 'd']`
- Simplified path: `/a/b/d`

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.Stack;

class Solution {
  public String simplifyPath(String path) {
    // Initialize a stack to keep track of valid directory names
    Stack<String> stack = new Stack<>();

    // Split the input path by "/" to get individual components
    String[] components = path.split("/");

    for (String directory : components) {
      // Ignore "." (current directory) or empty components resulting from multiple slashes
      if (!directory.equals(".") && !directory.isEmpty()) {
        if (directory.equals("..")) {
          // Pop the stack if ".." (parent directory) is encountered and the stack is not empty
          if (!stack.isEmpty()) {
            stack.pop();
          }
        } else {
          // Push valid directory names onto the stack
          stack.add(directory);
        }
      }
    }

    // Construct the simplified path from the stack elements
    StringBuilder simplifiedPath = new StringBuilder();
    for (String dir : stack) {
      simplifiedPath.append("/");
      simplifiedPath.append(dir);
    }

    // Ensure the path starts with "/" and handles the root directory case
    return simplifiedPath.length() > 0 ? simplifiedPath.toString() : "/";
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function simplifyPath(path: string): string {
  // Initialize a stack to keep track of valid directory names
  const stack: string[] = [];

  // Split the input path by "/" to get individual components
  const components = path.split("/");

  for (const directory of components) {
    // Ignore "." (current directory) or empty components resulting from multiple slashes
    if (directory === "." || directory === "") {
      continue;
    } else if (directory === "..") {
      // Pop the stack if ".." (parent directory) is encountered and the stack is not empty
      if (stack.length > 0) {
        stack.pop();
      }
    } else {
      // Push valid directory names onto the stack
      stack.push(directory);
    }
  }

  // Construct the simplified path from the stack elements
  const simplifiedPath = "/" + stack.join("/");

  // Return the simplified canonical path
  return simplifiedPath;
};
```

### Explanation

1. **Initialize the Stack**:
   - `const stack: string[] = [];`: Creates an empty stack to keep track of valid directory names.

2. **Split the Input Path**:
   - `const components = path.split("/");`: Splits the input string by `/` to get individual components.

3. **Process Each Component**:
   - Iterate through each `directory` in `components`:
     - `if (directory === "." || directory === "")`: Ignore `.` and empty components.
     - `else if (directory === "..")`: If `..` is encountered and the stack is not empty, pop the stack.
     - `else`: Push valid directory names onto the stack.

4. **Construct the Simplified Path**:
   - `const simplifiedPath = "/" + stack.join("/");`: Concatenate the stack elements with `/` to form the simplified path.

### Key Points:
- The `split` method is used to break the path into components.
- A stack is employed to keep track of the directory names, handling special cases for `.` and `..`.
- The final simplified path is constructed by joining the stack elements with a `/`.


### **Time Complexity**: `O(N)`

The time complexity of this algorithm is `O(N)`.

1. **Splitting the Path**: The first step is to split the input path into components based on the delimiter `/`. This operation requires traversing the entire path, resulting in `O(N)` time complexity.
  
2. **Processing Each Component**: After splitting, we iterate through each component. For each component, we perform constant-time operations such as checking its value and manipulating the stack. Since we process each component exactly once, this step also has `O(N)` time complexity.

Thus, the overall time complexity is `O(N) + O(N) = O(N)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(N)`

The space complexity of this algorithm is `O(N)`.

1. **Storage for Split Components**: We store the components of the path after splitting it, which requires `O(N)` space.

2. **Stack Storage**: In the worst case, all components of the path could be legitimate directory names, resulting in each component being pushed onto the stack. This requires additional `O(N)` space.

Therefore, the overall space complexity is `O(N) + O(N) = O(2N)`, which simplifies to `O(N)`.
