LeetCode/64-minimum-path-sum/problem.md, before:

# 64. Minimum Path Sum

<p>Given a <code>m x n</code> <code>grid</code> filled with non-negative numbers, find a path from top left to bottom right, which minimizes the sum of all numbers along its path.</p>

<p><strong>Note:</strong> You can only move either down or right at any point in time.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 242px; height: 242px;" src="img/64-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1,3,1],[1,5,1],[4,2,1]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 7
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Because the path 1 → 3 → 1 → 1 → 1 minimizes the sum.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 12
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == grid.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == grid[i].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 200</code></li>
  <li><code>0 &lt;= grid[i][j] &lt;= 200</code></li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Recursive (Brute Force) Approach](#recursive-brute-force-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(2^(m+n))`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(m+n)`
- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)

### Problem Overview: Minimum Path Sum
The task is to find the **minimum sum of numbers** along a path from the **top-left corner** to the **bottom-right corner** of a grid. The grid contains **non-negative numbers** in each cell. You can only move either **right** or **down** at any point in time.

### Key Features
1. **Grid Dimensions**:
   - The grid is `m x n`, where `m` is the number of rows and `n` is the number of columns.
   - Each cell contains a non-negative number (0 or greater).

2. **Allowed Moves**:
   - You can only move:
     - **Down** (to the cell directly below).
     - **Right** (to the cell directly to the right).

3. **Goal**:
   - Compute the **path** from the top-left corner `(0, 0)` to the bottom-right corner `(m-1, n-1)` that has the **minimum sum** of all cell values along the way.

### Examples
#### Example 1:
- **Input**: `grid = [[1,3,1], [1,5,1], [4,2,1]]`
- **Explanation**: 
  - The best path is `1 → 3 → 1 → 1 → 1`, with a total sum of `7`.
  - This is achieved by minimizing the numbers along the path while adhering to the movement restrictions (right/down).
- **Output**: `7`

#### Example 2:
- **Input**: `grid = [[1,2,3], [4,5,6]]`
- **Explanation**: 
  - The best path is `1 → 2 → 3 → 6`, with a total sum of `12`.
- **Output**: `12`

### Constraints
- **Grid Dimensions**:
  - `1 ≤ m, n ≤ 200`
- **Cell Values**:
  - Each cell value is in the range `0 ≤ grid[i][j] ≤ 200`.

### Approach to Solve
1. **Dynamic Programming**:
   - Create a table (`dp`) where each cell stores the minimum path sum to reach that cell.
   - Transition:
     - `dp[i][j] = grid[i][j] + min(dp[i-1][j], dp[i][j-1])` (choose the minimum of coming from the top or left).
   - Base cases:
     - Start at `(0, 0)` with `dp[0][0] = grid[0][0]`.
   - Traverse the grid row by row or column by column to fill the table.

2. **Space Optimization**:
   - You can reduce space usage by modifying the input grid directly or using a single-dimensional array instead of a full table.

# Recursive (Brute Force) Approach

The brute force approach, though simple and naive, serves as a starting point rather than a viable solution.

## **Intuition**

The recursive brute force approach relies on exploring all possible paths from the top-left corner to the bottom-right corner of the grid. For each grid cell `(i, j)`, there are two possible moves: 
1. **Move Right**: Proceed to cell `(i, j+1)`.
2. **Move Down**: Proceed to cell `(i+1, j)`.

The idea is to calculate the total path sum for every valid path and return the **minimum path sum** among them. The recursive approach inherently breaks the problem into smaller subproblems by choosing one step at a time (right or down). 

However, brute force recursion is **inefficient**, as it repeatedly recalculates the minimum path sums for overlapping subproblems. This leads to exponential time complexity, making it impractical for larger grids.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Base Case**: 
   - If the current cell is the bottom-right corner `(m-1, n-1)`, return its value as the remaining path sum is simply the cell value.
   - If the current cell lies **out of bounds** (beyond the grid's rows or columns), return a very large value (treated as infinity) to signify an invalid path.

2. **Recursive Relation**:
   - From the current cell `(i, j)`, recursively calculate the minimum path sum for both possible moves:
     - Moving **right**: Call the function for cell `(i, j+1)`.
     - Moving **down**: Call the function for cell `(i+1, j)`.
   - Add the current cell's value `grid[i][j]` to the minimum of the two computed values to get the minimum path sum for the current cell.

3. **Final Result**:
   - Start the recursion from the top-left corner `(0, 0)`. The result will represent the minimum path sum for the entire grid.

### **Pseudo-code**

```plaintext
function minPathSum(grid, i, j):
    if i == m-1 and j == n-1: 
        return grid[i][j]  // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
    if i >= m or j >= n: 
        return infinity    // Out of bounds
    
    // Calculate minimum sum from right and down moves
    rightPath = minPathSum(grid, i, j+1)
    downPath = minPathSum(grid, i+1, j)

    // Return the current cell value + minimum of the two paths
    return grid[i][j] + min(rightPath, downPath)
```

### **Key Observations**
- **Exponential Complexity**: The approach repeatedly computes results for overlapping subproblems, resulting in a time complexity of \(O(2^{m+n})\). This is due to the two recursive calls at each step.
- **Optimization Opportunity**: To address inefficiency, we can store the results of subproblems (using memoization or dynamic programming) to avoid redundant computations, transforming it into a more efficient solution.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  // Recursive helper method
  public int computePathSum(int[][] grid, int i, int j) {
    // Base case: Out of bounds
    if (i == grid.length || j == grid[0].length) {
      return Integer.MAX_VALUE;
    }
    // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
    if (i == grid.length - 1 && j == grid[0].length - 1) {
      return grid[i][j];
    }
    // Recursive case: Compute the minimum path sum
    return grid[i][j] + Math.min(computePathSum(grid, i + 1, j), computePathSum(grid, i, j + 1));
  }

  // Main method to compute the minimum path sum
  public int minPathSum(int[][] grid) {
    return computePathSum(grid, 0, 0);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function minPathSum(grid: number[][]): number {
  // Recursive helper function
  const computePathSum = (i: number, j: number): number => {
      // Base case: Out of bounds
      if (i >= grid.length || j >= grid[0].length) {
          return Infinity; // Treat as invalid path
      }
      // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
      if (i === grid.length - 1 && j === grid[0].length - 1) {
          return grid[i][j];
      }
      // Recursive case: Compute the minimum path sum
      return grid[i][j] + Math.min(computePathSum(i + 1, j), computePathSum(i, j + 1));
  };

  // Start the recursion from the top-left corner
  return computePathSum(0, 0);
};
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**
- **Grid Dimensions (m x n)**: The grid has `m` rows and `n` columns.
- **Path Restrictions**: Movement is restricted to either right (to cell `(i, j+1)`) or down (to cell `(i+1, j)`).
- **Recursive Approach**: The recursive function explores all possible paths from the top-left to the bottom-right of the grid.

### **Time Complexity**: `O(2^(m+n))`
- **Recursive Calls**: 
  - At each cell `(i, j)`, the function makes two recursive calls: one for moving **right** and another for moving **down**.
  - The recursive process forms a binary tree of calls. The depth of this tree is approximately `m + n` because it takes `m-1` steps down and `n-1` steps right to reach the destination.
  - This results in a total of \(O(2^{m+n})\) recursive calls.
- **Subproblem Overlap**:
  - Many overlapping subproblems are recalculated in different branches of recursion due to lack of memoization, contributing to the exponential growth.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(m+n)`
- **Maximum Depth**:
  - At any point, the recursion stack stores calls for one path from the top-left to the bottom-right corner of the grid.
  - The maximum depth of this stack is \(O(m+n)\), as it takes at most `m-1` steps down and `n-1` steps right to complete the path.
- **Additional Space**:
  - No additional data structures are used in the brute force approach, so the space usage is limited to the recursion stack.

# Dynamic Programming Approach

### **Approach**

We use an extra matrix `dp` of the same size as the original matrix. In this matrix, `dp(i, j)` represents the minimum sum of the path from the index `(i, j)` to the bottom-rightmost element of the grid. 

1. **Initialization**:
   - The bottom-rightmost element of `dp` is initialized as the last element of the given matrix (`grid`), as this is the final destination with no further cells to traverse.

2. **Backward Traversal**:
   - Starting from the bottom-right corner of the grid, we traverse backwards through the grid to compute the minimum sums for each cell. At every cell, we consider the two possible moves:
     - **Rightwards**: Move to cell `(i, j+1)`.
     - **Downwards**: Move to cell `(i+1, j)`.

Remember that for every element, we can move either rightwards or downwards. So filling in the minimum sum we use the equation `currCell + min(cellRight, cellDownwards)`

Commit message:

feat(#64): Rewrite equation as transition relation

LeetCode/64-minimum-path-sum/problem.md, after:

# 64. Minimum Path Sum

<p>Given a <code>m x n</code> <code>grid</code> filled with non-negative numbers, find a path from top left to bottom right, which minimizes the sum of all numbers along its path.</p>

<p><strong>Note:</strong> You can only move either down or right at any point in time.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 242px; height: 242px;" src="img/64-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1,3,1],[1,5,1],[4,2,1]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 7
<strong>Explanation:</strong> Because the path 1 → 3 → 1 → 1 → 1 minimizes the sum.
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> grid = [[1,2,3],[4,5,6]]
<strong>Output:</strong> 12
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>m == grid.length</code></li>
  <li><code>n == grid[i].length</code></li>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= m, n &lt;= 200</code></li>
  <li><code>0 &lt;= grid[i][j] &lt;= 200</code></li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Recursive (Brute Force) Approach](#recursive-brute-force-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(2^(m+n))`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(m+n)`
- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)

### Problem Overview: Minimum Path Sum
The task is to find the **minimum sum of numbers** along a path from the **top-left corner** to the **bottom-right corner** of a grid. The grid contains **non-negative numbers** in each cell. You can only move either **right** or **down** at any point in time.

### Key Features
1. **Grid Dimensions**:
   - The grid is `m x n`, where `m` is the number of rows and `n` is the number of columns.
   - Each cell contains a non-negative number (0 or greater).

2. **Allowed Moves**:
   - You can only move:
     - **Down** (to the cell directly below).
     - **Right** (to the cell directly to the right).

3. **Goal**:
   - Compute the **path** from the top-left corner `(0, 0)` to the bottom-right corner `(m-1, n-1)` that has the **minimum sum** of all cell values along the way.

### Examples
#### Example 1:
- **Input**: `grid = [[1,3,1], [1,5,1], [4,2,1]]`
- **Explanation**: 
  - The best path is `1 → 3 → 1 → 1 → 1`, with a total sum of `7`.
  - This is achieved by minimizing the numbers along the path while adhering to the movement restrictions (right/down).
- **Output**: `7`

#### Example 2:
- **Input**: `grid = [[1,2,3], [4,5,6]]`
- **Explanation**: 
  - The best path is `1 → 2 → 3 → 6`, with a total sum of `12`.
- **Output**: `12`

### Constraints
- **Grid Dimensions**:
  - `1 ≤ m, n ≤ 200`
- **Cell Values**:
  - Each cell value is in the range `0 ≤ grid[i][j] ≤ 200`.

### Approach to Solve
1. **Dynamic Programming**:
   - Create a table (`dp`) where each cell stores the minimum path sum to reach that cell.
   - Transition:
     - `dp[i][j] = grid[i][j] + min(dp[i-1][j], dp[i][j-1])` (choose the minimum of coming from the top or left).
   - Base cases:
     - Start at `(0, 0)` with `dp[0][0] = grid[0][0]`.
   - Traverse the grid row by row or column by column to fill the table.

2. **Space Optimization**:
   - You can reduce space usage by modifying the input grid directly or using a single-dimensional array instead of a full table.

# Recursive (Brute Force) Approach

The brute force approach, though simple and naive, serves as a starting point rather than a viable solution.

## **Intuition**

The recursive brute force approach relies on exploring all possible paths from the top-left corner to the bottom-right corner of the grid. For each grid cell `(i, j)`, there are two possible moves: 
1. **Move Right**: Proceed to cell `(i, j+1)`.
2. **Move Down**: Proceed to cell `(i+1, j)`.

The idea is to calculate the total path sum for every valid path and return the **minimum path sum** among them. The recursive approach inherently breaks the problem into smaller subproblems by choosing one step at a time (right or down). 

However, brute force recursion is **inefficient**, as it repeatedly recalculates the minimum path sums for overlapping subproblems. This leads to exponential time complexity, making it impractical for larger grids.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Base Case**: 
   - If the current cell is the bottom-right corner `(m-1, n-1)`, return its value as the remaining path sum is simply the cell value.
   - If the current cell lies **out of bounds** (beyond the grid's rows or columns), return a very large value (treated as infinity) to signify an invalid path.

2. **Recursive Relation**:
   - From the current cell `(i, j)`, recursively calculate the minimum path sum for both possible moves:
     - Moving **right**: Call the function for cell `(i, j+1)`.
     - Moving **down**: Call the function for cell `(i+1, j)`.
   - Add the current cell's value `grid[i][j]` to the minimum of the two computed values to get the minimum path sum for the current cell.

3. **Final Result**:
   - Start the recursion from the top-left corner `(0, 0)`. The result will represent the minimum path sum for the entire grid.

### **Pseudo-code**

```plaintext
function minPathSum(grid, i, j):
    if i == m-1 and j == n-1: 
        return grid[i][j]  // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
    if i >= m or j >= n: 
        return infinity    // Out of bounds
    
    // Calculate minimum sum from right and down moves
    rightPath = minPathSum(grid, i, j+1)
    downPath = minPathSum(grid, i+1, j)

    // Return the current cell value + minimum of the two paths
    return grid[i][j] + min(rightPath, downPath)
```

### **Key Observations**
- **Exponential Complexity**: The approach repeatedly computes results for overlapping subproblems, resulting in a time complexity of \(O(2^{m+n})\). This is due to the two recursive calls at each step.
- **Optimization Opportunity**: To address inefficiency, we can store the results of subproblems (using memoization or dynamic programming) to avoid redundant computations, transforming it into a more efficient solution.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  // Recursive helper method
  public int computePathSum(int[][] grid, int i, int j) {
    // Base case: Out of bounds
    if (i == grid.length || j == grid[0].length) {
      return Integer.MAX_VALUE;
    }
    // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
    if (i == grid.length - 1 && j == grid[0].length - 1) {
      return grid[i][j];
    }
    // Recursive case: Compute the minimum path sum
    return grid[i][j] + Math.min(computePathSum(grid, i + 1, j), computePathSum(grid, i, j + 1));
  }

  // Main method to compute the minimum path sum
  public int minPathSum(int[][] grid) {
    return computePathSum(grid, 0, 0);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function minPathSum(grid: number[][]): number {
  // Recursive helper function
  const computePathSum = (i: number, j: number): number => {
      // Base case: Out of bounds
      if (i >= grid.length || j >= grid[0].length) {
          return Infinity; // Treat as invalid path
      }
      // Base case: Reached bottom-right corner
      if (i === grid.length - 1 && j === grid[0].length - 1) {
          return grid[i][j];
      }
      // Recursive case: Compute the minimum path sum
      return grid[i][j] + Math.min(computePathSum(i + 1, j), computePathSum(i, j + 1));
  };

  // Start the recursion from the top-left corner
  return computePathSum(0, 0);
};
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**
- **Grid Dimensions (m x n)**: The grid has `m` rows and `n` columns.
- **Path Restrictions**: Movement is restricted to either right (to cell `(i, j+1)`) or down (to cell `(i+1, j)`).
- **Recursive Approach**: The recursive function explores all possible paths from the top-left to the bottom-right of the grid.

### **Time Complexity**: `O(2^(m+n))`
- **Recursive Calls**: 
  - At each cell `(i, j)`, the function makes two recursive calls: one for moving **right** and another for moving **down**.
  - The recursive process forms a binary tree of calls. The depth of this tree is approximately `m + n` because it takes `m-1` steps down and `n-1` steps right to reach the destination.
  - This results in a total of \(O(2^{m+n})\) recursive calls.
- **Subproblem Overlap**:
  - Many overlapping subproblems are recalculated in different branches of recursion due to lack of memoization, contributing to the exponential growth.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(m+n)`
- **Maximum Depth**:
  - At any point, the recursion stack stores calls for one path from the top-left to the bottom-right corner of the grid.
  - The maximum depth of this stack is \(O(m+n)\), as it takes at most `m-1` steps down and `n-1` steps right to complete the path.
- **Additional Space**:
  - No additional data structures are used in the brute force approach, so the space usage is limited to the recursion stack.

# Dynamic Programming Approach

### **Approach**

We use an extra matrix `dp` of the same size as the original matrix. In this matrix, `dp(i, j)` represents the minimum sum of the path from the index `(i, j)` to the bottom-rightmost element of the grid. 

1. **Initialization**:
   - The bottom-rightmost element of `dp` is initialized as the last element of the given matrix (`grid`), as this is the final destination with no further cells to traverse.

2. **Backward Traversal**:
   - Starting from the bottom-right corner of the grid, we traverse backwards through the grid to compute the minimum sums for each cell. At every cell, we consider the two possible moves:
     - **Rightwards**: Move to cell `(i, j+1)`.
     - **Downwards**: Move to cell `(i+1, j)`.

3. **Transition Relation**:
   - The equation for calculating the minimum sum for a cell is:
     \[
     dp(i, j) = grid(i, j) + \min(dp(i+1, j), dp(i, j+1))
     \]
   - This ensures that the value of each cell in the `dp` matrix represents the minimum sum of all possible paths from that cell to the destination.
