LeetCode/70-climbing-stairs/problem.md, before:

# 70. Climbing Stairs

<p>You are climbing a staircase. It takes <code>n</code> steps to reach the top.</p>

<p>Each time you can either climb <code>1</code> or <code>2</code> steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb to the top?</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> n = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are two ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step
2. 2 steps
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> n = 3
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are three ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step + 1 step
2. 1 step + 2 steps
3. 2 steps + 1 step
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 45</code></li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Brute Force (Naive Approach)](#brute-force-naive-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(2^n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Recursion with Memoization](#recursion-with-memoization)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Fibonacci Number (Naive Approach)](#fibonacci-number-naive-approach)


# Brute Force (Naive Approach)

**Note:** This method is impractical due to its exponential time complexity of `O(2^n)`, which will result in a *Time Limit Exceeded* error. While the brute force (naive) approach is useful for grasping the fundamentals of the climbing stairs problem, we will soon explore more efficient solutions, such as the [Recursion with Memoization](#recursion-with-memoization) approach, to improve performance.

## **Intuition**

In this brute force approach, we take all possible step combinations, i.e., 1 and 2, at every step. At each step, we call the function `climbStairs` for step 1 and step 2, and return the sum of returned values of both functions.

The recurrence relation is:

`climbStairs(i, n) = climbStairs(i + 1, n) + climbStairs(i + 2, n)`

where `i` defines the current step and `n` defines the destination step.

### Visualization of Recursion Tree

The recursion tree for `n = 5`:

![](img/70-1.jpg)

## **Algorithm**

1. Define the base cases:
   - If the current step `i` equals `n`, return 1 (one way to reach the top).
   - If `i` exceeds `n`, return 0 (no way to reach the top from this position).
2. Recursively call `climbStairs` with `i+1` and `i+2`.
3. Sum the results of the two recursive calls to get the total number of ways to reach the top from step `i`.
4. Use the base cases to terminate the recursion.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
class Solution {
  /**
   * Brute force approach to calculate the number of distinct ways to climb to the top. Each time
   * you can either climb 1 or 2 steps.
   *
   * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
   * @returns The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
   */
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Base case: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
    if (n == 0 || n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }
    // Recursive calls to find the number of ways to reach the n-th step
    return climbStairs(n - 1) + climbStairs(n - 2);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
/**
 * Brute force approach to calculate the number of distinct ways to climb to the top.
 * Each time you can either climb 1 or 2 steps.
 *
 * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
 * @returns The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
 */
function climbStairs(n: number): number {
  // Base case: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
      return 1;
  }
  // Recursive calls to find the number of ways to reach the n-th step
  return climbStairs(n - 1) + climbStairs(n - 2);
};
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

The recursion tree created for `n = 5`:

![](img/70-1.jpg)

### **Time Complexity**: `O(2^n)`

- **Exponential Growth**: For each step `i`, two recursive calls are made (`climbStairs(i + 1, n)` and `climbStairs(i + 2, n)`), forming a binary tree.
- **Height of Tree**: The height of this binary tree is `n`.
- **Total Nodes**: The total number of nodes in the recursion tree is `2^n`.
- **Result**: Therefore, the time complexity is `O(2^n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Recursion Depth**: The maximum depth of the recursion tree is `n`.
- **Call Stack**: The recursion stack will hold at most `n` function calls simultaneously.
- **Result**: This results in a space complexity of `O(n)`.

# Recursion with Memoization

## **Intuition**

In the previous approach, we were redundantly calculating the result for every step, which resulted in an exponential time complexity. Instead, we can use a technique called **memoization** to store the result at each step in a memo array. By directly returning the result from the memo array whenever that function is called again, we avoid redundant calculations.

### Memoization Overview

Memoization is an optimization technique that involves storing the results of expensive function calls and reusing those results when the same inputs occur again. By doing this, we significantly reduce the time complexity of the algorithm by avoiding redundant computations. 

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize**: Create a memo array to store the results of each step.
2. **Base Cases**: 
   - If `n` is 0 or 1, return 1.
3. **Recursive Case**: 
   - If the result for the current step is already computed (present in the memo array), return that result.
   - Otherwise, compute the result by recursively calling the function for `n-1` and `n-2` and store this result in the memo array.
4. **Return the Result**: Finally, return the result for the given `n`.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  // Function to calculate number of ways to climb stairs using memoization
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Create a memo array to store results of each step
    int[] memo = new int[n + 1];
    return climbStairsWithMemoization(n, memo);
  }

  // Recursive auxiliary function to calculate number of ways using memoization
  private int climbStairsWithMemoization(int n, int[] memo) {
    // Base cases: if n is 0 or 1, there is only one way to climb
    if (n == 0 || n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }

    // If result is already computed, return it
    if (memo[n] != 0) {
      return memo[n];
    }

    // Compute the result for the current step
    memo[n] = climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 1, memo) + climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 2, memo);
    return memo[n];
  }
}
```

This implementation leverages memoization to efficiently compute the number of distinct ways to climb the stairs, drastically reducing the time complexity compared to the brute force approach.

### TypeScript

```typescript
function climbStairs(n: number): number {
  // Create a memo array to store results of each step
  const memo: number[] = new Array(n + 1).fill(0);
  return climbStairsWithMemoization(n, memo);
}

function climbStairsWithMemoization(n: number, memo: number[]): number {
  // Base cases: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  }

  // If result is already computed, return it
  if (memo[n] !== 0) {
    return memo[n];
  }

  // Compute the result for the current step
  memo[n] =
    climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 1, memo) +
    climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 2, memo);
  return memo[n];
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Reason**: In the memoization approach, each unique subproblem is solved only once. Once computed, the result is stored in the memo array and reused whenever needed. Hence, we perform a constant amount of work for each step from `0` to `n`.
- **Linear Growth**: The number of steps, `n`, directly determines the number of calculations. Therefore, the time complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Memoization Storage**: We use a memo array of size `n+1` to store the results of subproblems. This requires additional space proportional to the number of steps, `n`.
- **Recursion Depth**: The recursion stack depth also grows up to `n` in the worst case, contributing to the space complexity.
- **Total Space Usage**: Combining the memo array and the recursion stack, the overall space complexity is `O(n)`.

# Dynamic Programming Approach

This dynamic programming approach efficiently calculates the number of ways to climb stairs, utilizing both optimal time and space complexity.

## **Intuition**

This problem can be broken into subproblems and contains the optimal substructure property, meaning its optimal solution can be constructed efficiently from the optimal solutions of its subproblems. Therefore, dynamic programming can be used to solve this problem.

One can reach the i-th step in one of two ways:
1. Taking a single step from the (i-1)-th step.
2. Taking a step of 2 from the (i-2)-th step.

Thus, the total number of ways to reach the i-th step is equal to the sum of ways of reaching the (i-1)-th step and the ways of reaching the (i-2)-th step.

Let `dp[i]` denote the number of ways to reach the i-th step:
\[ \text{dp[i]} = \text{dp[i-1]} + \text{dp[i-2]} \]

### Dynamic Programming Overview

Dynamic programming is a method for solving problems by breaking them down into simpler subproblems and solving each subproblem only once, storing their solutions - usually in an array or hash table. This approach reduces the computational overhead associated with solving the same subproblems multiple times.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialization**: 
   - Create an array `dp` of size `n+1` to store the number of ways to reach each step.
   - Initialize `dp[1]` to 1 and `dp[2]` to 2, as there is only one way to reach step 1 and two ways to reach step 2.

2. **Iteration**:
   - Use a loop from 3 to `n`.
   - For each step `i`, set `dp[i]` to the sum of `dp[i-1]` and `dp[i-2]`.

3. **Return Result**: 
   - The result is the value of `dp[n]`.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  /**
   * Function to calculate the number of ways to climb stairs using dynamic programming.
   *
   * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
   * @return The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
   */
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Base case: If there's only one step, there's only one way to climb
    if (n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }

    // Create a dp array to store results of each step
    int[] dp = new int[n + 1];
    dp[1] = 1; // One way to reach the first step
    dp[2] = 2; // Two ways to reach the second step

    // Fill the dp array using the dynamic programming approach
    for (int i = 3; i <= n; i++) {
      dp[i] = dp[i - 1] + dp[i - 2]; // Number of ways to reach i-th step
    }

    return dp[n]; // Return the number of ways to reach the top
  }
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Single Loop**: The algorithm iterates from 3 to `n`, performing a constant amount of work in each iteration. The time complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Array Storage**: The algorithm uses an array `dp` of size `n+1` to store the number of ways to reach each step. The space complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

# Fibonacci Number (Naive Approach)

This approach efficiently calculates the number of ways to climb stairs by leveraging the properties of the Fibonacci sequence, resulting in both optimal time and space complexity.

### Fibonacci Number Overview

For those unfamiliar with the Fibonacci sequence, it is a series of numbers where each number is the sum of the two preceding ones, usually starting with 0 and 1. In this problem, however, we start with 1 and 2 because the first step can be taken in 1 way, and the second step can be reached directly in 2 ways (either two single steps or one double step).

Commit message:

feat(#70): Add intuition for Fibonacci number

LeetCode/70-climbing-stairs/problem.md, after:

# 70. Climbing Stairs

<p>You are climbing a staircase. It takes <code>n</code> steps to reach the top.</p>

<p>Each time you can either climb <code>1</code> or <code>2</code> steps. In how many distinct ways can you climb to the top?</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> n = 2
<strong>Output:</strong> 2
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are two ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step
2. 2 steps
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> n = 3
<strong>Output:</strong> 3
<strong>Explanation:</strong> There are three ways to climb to the top.
1. 1 step + 1 step + 1 step
2. 1 step + 2 steps
3. 2 steps + 1 step
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 45</code></li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Brute Force (Naive Approach)](#brute-force-naive-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(2^n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Recursion with Memoization](#recursion-with-memoization)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Dynamic Programming Approach](#dynamic-programming-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- [Fibonacci Number (Naive Approach)](#fibonacci-number-naive-approach)


# Brute Force (Naive Approach)

**Note:** This method is impractical due to its exponential time complexity of `O(2^n)`, which will result in a *Time Limit Exceeded* error. While the brute force (naive) approach is useful for grasping the fundamentals of the climbing stairs problem, we will soon explore more efficient solutions, such as the [Recursion with Memoization](#recursion-with-memoization) approach, to improve performance.

## **Intuition**

In this brute force approach, we take all possible step combinations, i.e., 1 and 2, at every step. At each step, we call the function `climbStairs` for step 1 and step 2, and return the sum of returned values of both functions.

The recurrence relation is:

`climbStairs(i, n) = climbStairs(i + 1, n) + climbStairs(i + 2, n)`

where `i` defines the current step and `n` defines the destination step.

### Visualization of Recursion Tree

The recursion tree for `n = 5`:

![](img/70-1.jpg)

## **Algorithm**

1. Define the base cases:
   - If the current step `i` equals `n`, return 1 (one way to reach the top).
   - If `i` exceeds `n`, return 0 (no way to reach the top from this position).
2. Recursively call `climbStairs` with `i+1` and `i+2`.
3. Sum the results of the two recursive calls to get the total number of ways to reach the top from step `i`.
4. Use the base cases to terminate the recursion.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
class Solution {
  /**
   * Brute force approach to calculate the number of distinct ways to climb to the top. Each time
   * you can either climb 1 or 2 steps.
   *
   * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
   * @returns The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
   */
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Base case: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
    if (n == 0 || n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }
    // Recursive calls to find the number of ways to reach the n-th step
    return climbStairs(n - 1) + climbStairs(n - 2);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
/**
 * Brute force approach to calculate the number of distinct ways to climb to the top.
 * Each time you can either climb 1 or 2 steps.
 *
 * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
 * @returns The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
 */
function climbStairs(n: number): number {
  // Base case: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
      return 1;
  }
  // Recursive calls to find the number of ways to reach the n-th step
  return climbStairs(n - 1) + climbStairs(n - 2);
};
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

The recursion tree created for `n = 5`:

![](img/70-1.jpg)

### **Time Complexity**: `O(2^n)`

- **Exponential Growth**: For each step `i`, two recursive calls are made (`climbStairs(i + 1, n)` and `climbStairs(i + 2, n)`), forming a binary tree.
- **Height of Tree**: The height of this binary tree is `n`.
- **Total Nodes**: The total number of nodes in the recursion tree is `2^n`.
- **Result**: Therefore, the time complexity is `O(2^n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Recursion Depth**: The maximum depth of the recursion tree is `n`.
- **Call Stack**: The recursion stack will hold at most `n` function calls simultaneously.
- **Result**: This results in a space complexity of `O(n)`.

# Recursion with Memoization

## **Intuition**

In the previous approach, we were redundantly calculating the result for every step, which resulted in an exponential time complexity. Instead, we can use a technique called **memoization** to store the result at each step in a memo array. By directly returning the result from the memo array whenever that function is called again, we avoid redundant calculations.

### Memoization Overview

Memoization is an optimization technique that involves storing the results of expensive function calls and reusing those results when the same inputs occur again. By doing this, we significantly reduce the time complexity of the algorithm by avoiding redundant computations. 

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialize**: Create a memo array to store the results of each step.
2. **Base Cases**: 
   - If `n` is 0 or 1, return 1.
3. **Recursive Case**: 
   - If the result for the current step is already computed (present in the memo array), return that result.
   - Otherwise, compute the result by recursively calling the function for `n-1` and `n-2` and store this result in the memo array.
4. **Return the Result**: Finally, return the result for the given `n`.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  // Function to calculate number of ways to climb stairs using memoization
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Create a memo array to store results of each step
    int[] memo = new int[n + 1];
    return climbStairsWithMemoization(n, memo);
  }

  // Recursive auxiliary function to calculate number of ways using memoization
  private int climbStairsWithMemoization(int n, int[] memo) {
    // Base cases: if n is 0 or 1, there is only one way to climb
    if (n == 0 || n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }

    // If result is already computed, return it
    if (memo[n] != 0) {
      return memo[n];
    }

    // Compute the result for the current step
    memo[n] = climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 1, memo) + climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 2, memo);
    return memo[n];
  }
}
```

This implementation leverages memoization to efficiently compute the number of distinct ways to climb the stairs, drastically reducing the time complexity compared to the brute force approach.

### TypeScript

```typescript
function climbStairs(n: number): number {
  // Create a memo array to store results of each step
  const memo: number[] = new Array(n + 1).fill(0);
  return climbStairsWithMemoization(n, memo);
}

function climbStairsWithMemoization(n: number, memo: number[]): number {
  // Base cases: If the steps are 0 or 1, there's only one way to climb
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  }

  // If result is already computed, return it
  if (memo[n] !== 0) {
    return memo[n];
  }

  // Compute the result for the current step
  memo[n] =
    climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 1, memo) +
    climbStairsWithMemoization(n - 2, memo);
  return memo[n];
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Reason**: In the memoization approach, each unique subproblem is solved only once. Once computed, the result is stored in the memo array and reused whenever needed. Hence, we perform a constant amount of work for each step from `0` to `n`.
- **Linear Growth**: The number of steps, `n`, directly determines the number of calculations. Therefore, the time complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Memoization Storage**: We use a memo array of size `n+1` to store the results of subproblems. This requires additional space proportional to the number of steps, `n`.
- **Recursion Depth**: The recursion stack depth also grows up to `n` in the worst case, contributing to the space complexity.
- **Total Space Usage**: Combining the memo array and the recursion stack, the overall space complexity is `O(n)`.

# Dynamic Programming Approach

This dynamic programming approach efficiently calculates the number of ways to climb stairs, utilizing both optimal time and space complexity.

## **Intuition**

This problem can be broken into subproblems and contains the optimal substructure property, meaning its optimal solution can be constructed efficiently from the optimal solutions of its subproblems. Therefore, dynamic programming can be used to solve this problem.

One can reach the i-th step in one of two ways:
1. Taking a single step from the (i-1)-th step.
2. Taking a step of 2 from the (i-2)-th step.

Thus, the total number of ways to reach the i-th step is equal to the sum of ways of reaching the (i-1)-th step and the ways of reaching the (i-2)-th step.

Let `dp[i]` denote the number of ways to reach the i-th step:
\[ \text{dp[i]} = \text{dp[i-1]} + \text{dp[i-2]} \]

### Dynamic Programming Overview

Dynamic programming is a method for solving problems by breaking them down into simpler subproblems and solving each subproblem only once, storing their solutions - usually in an array or hash table. This approach reduces the computational overhead associated with solving the same subproblems multiple times.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Initialization**: 
   - Create an array `dp` of size `n+1` to store the number of ways to reach each step.
   - Initialize `dp[1]` to 1 and `dp[2]` to 2, as there is only one way to reach step 1 and two ways to reach step 2.

2. **Iteration**:
   - Use a loop from 3 to `n`.
   - For each step `i`, set `dp[i]` to the sum of `dp[i-1]` and `dp[i-2]`.

3. **Return Result**: 
   - The result is the value of `dp[n]`.

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
public class Solution {
  /**
   * Function to calculate the number of ways to climb stairs using dynamic programming.
   *
   * @param n The total number of steps to reach the top.
   * @return The number of distinct ways to reach the top.
   */
  public int climbStairs(int n) {
    // Base case: If there's only one step, there's only one way to climb
    if (n == 1) {
      return 1;
    }

    // Create a dp array to store results of each step
    int[] dp = new int[n + 1];
    dp[1] = 1; // One way to reach the first step
    dp[2] = 2; // Two ways to reach the second step

    // Fill the dp array using the dynamic programming approach
    for (int i = 3; i <= n; i++) {
      dp[i] = dp[i - 1] + dp[i - 2]; // Number of ways to reach i-th step
    }

    return dp[n]; // Return the number of ways to reach the top
  }
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Single Loop**: The algorithm iterates from 3 to `n`, performing a constant amount of work in each iteration. The time complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- **Array Storage**: The algorithm uses an array `dp` of size `n+1` to store the number of ways to reach each step. The space complexity is linear, `O(n)`.

# Fibonacci Number (Naive Approach)

This approach efficiently calculates the number of ways to climb stairs by leveraging the properties of the Fibonacci sequence, resulting in both optimal time and space complexity.

## **Intuition**

The problem of climbing stairs is analogous to finding the Fibonacci sequence. In the dynamic programming approach, we observed that the number of ways to reach the i-th step could be derived from the sum of ways to reach the (i-1)-th and (i-2)-th steps. This is the essence of the Fibonacci sequence, where each term is the sum of the two preceding ones.

### Fibonacci Number Overview

For those unfamiliar with the Fibonacci sequence, it is a series of numbers where each number is the sum of the two preceding ones, usually starting with 0 and 1. In this problem, however, we start with 1 and 2 because the first step can be taken in 1 way, and the second step can be reached directly in 2 ways (either two single steps or one double step).
