LeetCode/92-reverse-linked-list-ii/problem.md, before:

# 92. Reverse Linked List II

<p>Given the <code>head</code> of a singly linked list and two integers <code>left</code> and <code>right</code> where <code>left &lt;= right</code>, reverse the nodes of the list from position <code>left</code> to position <code>right</code>, and return <em>the reversed list</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 542px; height: 222px;" src="img/92-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> head = [1,2,3,4,5], left = 2, right = 4
<strong>Output:</strong> [1,4,3,2,5]
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> head = [5], left = 1, right = 1
<strong>Output:</strong> [5]
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes in the list is <code>n</code>.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 500</code></li>
	<li><code>-500 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 500</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= left &lt;= right &lt;= n</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow up:</strong> Could you do it in one pass?

---

# Solution

- [Recursive Approach](#recursive-approach)

## **Problem Overview: Reverse Linked List II**

### Description
Given the `head` of a singly linked list and two integers `left` and `right` such that `1 <= left <= right <= n`, reverse the nodes of the list from position `left` to `right`, and return the modified list. This operation must be performed **in-place**, without creating new nodes for the reversed portion.

### Examples

#### Example 1:
**Input:**  
`head = [1,2,3,4,5]`, `left = 2`, `right = 4`  
**Output:**  
`[1,4,3,2,5]`  
**Explanation:**  
Only the sublist `[2,3,4]` is reversed to `[4,3,2]`.

#### Example 2:
**Input:**  
`head = [5]`, `left = 1`, `right = 1`  
**Output:**  
`[5]`  
**Explanation:**  
There is only one node; the list remains unchanged.

### Constraints
- The number of nodes in the list is `n`.
- `1 <= n <= 500`
- `-500 <= Node.val <= 500`
- `1 <= left <= right <= n`

### Follow-up
Can you perform the reversal in a **single traversal** of the list?

---

# Recursive Approach

## **Intuition**

Reversing a section of a linked list using recursion builds on a concept similar to reversing an array: **two pointers move inward from opposite ends, swapping elements until they meet.** In an array, this is straightforward due to the ability to use indices. We start with pointers at the `left` and `right` indices and move them toward the center, swapping values as we go.

### Visual Analogy:
![Array reversal using two pointers from both ends](img/92-2.jpg)

An array of 7 elements is reversed using two pointers: one starting at the front (yellow) and the other at the end (blue). The elements at these pointers are swapped as the pointers move toward each other until they meet in the middle.

### Translating to Linked Lists

In a linked list, we **lack index access and backward traversal**, which makes this approach trickier. However, recursion provides a clever workaround. The **call stack can simulate backward traversal**, allowing us to reverse values between two nodes as the recursion unwinds.

### **Recursive Strategy**

1. **Advance to the Left**: We use a helper function that recurses down to the `right`-th node.
2. **Track Left Pointer**: A reference pointer (`leftPtr`) is passed through recursive calls, initially pointing to the `left`-th node.
3. **Swap During Backtracking**:
   - Once the base case is reached (when `right` reaches the end of the target range), recursion begins to backtrack.
   - During backtracking, we **swap values** between the `leftPtr` and current node.
   - `leftPtr` is moved forward each time to meet the current node from the other side.

### **Why This Works**

- The forward movement of the `leftPtr` and the backward progression of the recursion meet in the middle—exactly like array pointers.
- By halting swaps when the two pointers meet or cross, we preserve the boundaries of the reversed section.
- **No auxiliary data structure is needed**, and the recursion stack elegantly handles tracking the second pointer.

### **Edge Cases Considered**

- If `left == right`: No changes are needed.
- If the list has only one node: The base case protects against unnecessary recursion.
- If the list is reversed entirely: The method works the same as with any subrange.

## **Visual Intuition Example**

### Step 0. The input list, output list, and arguments

Given the following list:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 2 -> 10 -> 1 -> 8 -> 6
```

and the following arguments:

- `head` = 7
- `left` = 3
- `right` = 6.

The final list is: 

```text
7 -> 9 -> 8 -> 1 -> 10 -> 2 -> 6
```

---

The sublist starts at position **3** and ends at position **6**:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 2 -> 10 -> 1 -> 8 -> 6
           ↑         ↑
         left      right
```

We're reversing the sublist `[2, 10, 1, 8]` into `[8, 1, 10, 2]`. Therefore, the transformed list is:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 8 -> 1 -> 10 -> 2 -> 6
```


## **Algorithm**

This recursive algorithm reverses a sublist of a singly linked list from position `left` to `right`. The recursion simulates a two-pointer reversal strategy without the use of backward pointers or indices.

### **Step-by-Step**

1. **Initialize State**:
- Define two global/external variables:
  - `leftPtr`: Points to the `left`-th node (moves forward during backtracking).
  - `stopFlag`: A boolean to halt swaps once pointers meet or cross.

2. **Advance to the Left Node**:
- In the driver function (e.g., `reverseBetween`), traverse the list to position `left` and assign it to `leftPtr`.

3. **Define the Recursive Function**:
- Create a helper function (e.g., `recurse(m, n, rightNode)`) that takes:
  - `m`: current left index,
  - `n`: current right index,
  - `rightNode`: pointer starting from head and moving rightward.
- This function:
  - Recursively descends until `n == 1`, progressing `rightNode` forward and decrementing `n`.
  - Meanwhile, `leftPtr` is advanced until `m == 1`.

4. **Swapping During Backtracking**:
- After reaching the base case (`n == 1`), begin backtracking:
  - Swap values between `leftPtr` and `rightNode`.
  - Advance `leftPtr` using `leftPtr = leftPtr.next`.
- On each recursive unwind:
  - Continue swapping unless:
    - `rightNode == leftPtr` (odd-sized sublist, pointers meet).
    - `rightNode.next == leftPtr` (even-sized sublist, pointers cross).
  - When either condition is met, set `stopFlag = true` to halt further swaps.

5. **Driver Function**:
  - Accepts `head`, `left`, and `right`.
  - Advances a traversal pointer to the `left`-th node and assigns it to `leftPtr`.
  - Calls the recursive helper with `(right - left + 1)` as the depth.
  - Returns the modified `head`.

### **Key Mechanics**
- **Pointer Simulation**: Forward traversal is done by `leftPtr`, while backward movement is simulated by recursion backtracking.
- **Value Swapping**: Only node values are swapped—no structural changes.
- **Stop Conditions**: Ensure termination to prevent over-swapping and maintain list integrity.

### **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
# Global state
leftPointer = null
stopSwapping = false

function reverseBetween(head, left, right):
  global leftPointer, stopSwapping
  leftPointer = head

  # Move leftPointer to the left-th node
  for i from 1 to left - 1:
    leftPointer = leftPointer.next

  # Start recursion from the head node, traversing to the right-th node
  recurse(head, right - left + 1)

  return head

function recurse(currentRightNode, depth):
  global leftPointer, stopSwapping

  if depth == 1:
    return

  # Recursive descent
  recurse(currentRightNode.next, depth - 1)

  # Stop condition: pointers have met or crossed
  if stopSwapping or currentRightNode == leftPointer or currentRightNode.next == leftPointer:
      stopSwapping = true
    return

  # Swap values between currentRightNode and leftPointer
  temp = leftPointer.value
  leftPointer.value = currentRightNode.value
  currentRightNode.value = temp

  # Move leftPointer forward
  leftPointer = leftPointer.next
```

Commit message:

feat(#92): Add Step 1 to initiate recursion flow

LeetCode/92-reverse-linked-list-ii/problem.md, after:

# 92. Reverse Linked List II

<p>Given the <code>head</code> of a singly linked list and two integers <code>left</code> and <code>right</code> where <code>left &lt;= right</code>, reverse the nodes of the list from position <code>left</code> to position <code>right</code>, and return <em>the reversed list</em>.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" style="width: 542px; height: 222px;" src="img/92-1.jpg">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> head = [1,2,3,4,5], left = 2, right = 4
<strong>Output:</strong> [1,4,3,2,5]
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input:</strong> head = [5], left = 1, right = 1
<strong>Output:</strong> [5]
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes in the list is <code>n</code>.</li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= n &lt;= 500</code></li>
	<li><code>-500 &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 500</code></li>
	<li><code>1 &lt;= left &lt;= right &lt;= n</code></li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<strong>Follow up:</strong> Could you do it in one pass?

---

# Solution

- [Recursive Approach](#recursive-approach)

## **Problem Overview: Reverse Linked List II**

### Description
Given the `head` of a singly linked list and two integers `left` and `right` such that `1 <= left <= right <= n`, reverse the nodes of the list from position `left` to `right`, and return the modified list. This operation must be performed **in-place**, without creating new nodes for the reversed portion.

### Examples

#### Example 1:
**Input:**  
`head = [1,2,3,4,5]`, `left = 2`, `right = 4`  
**Output:**  
`[1,4,3,2,5]`  
**Explanation:**  
Only the sublist `[2,3,4]` is reversed to `[4,3,2]`.

#### Example 2:
**Input:**  
`head = [5]`, `left = 1`, `right = 1`  
**Output:**  
`[5]`  
**Explanation:**  
There is only one node; the list remains unchanged.

### Constraints
- The number of nodes in the list is `n`.
- `1 <= n <= 500`
- `-500 <= Node.val <= 500`
- `1 <= left <= right <= n`

### Follow-up
Can you perform the reversal in a **single traversal** of the list?

---

# Recursive Approach

## **Intuition**

Reversing a section of a linked list using recursion builds on a concept similar to reversing an array: **two pointers move inward from opposite ends, swapping elements until they meet.** In an array, this is straightforward due to the ability to use indices. We start with pointers at the `left` and `right` indices and move them toward the center, swapping values as we go.

### Visual Analogy:
![Array reversal using two pointers from both ends](img/92-2.jpg)

An array of 7 elements is reversed using two pointers: one starting at the front (yellow) and the other at the end (blue). The elements at these pointers are swapped as the pointers move toward each other until they meet in the middle.

### Translating to Linked Lists

In a linked list, we **lack index access and backward traversal**, which makes this approach trickier. However, recursion provides a clever workaround. The **call stack can simulate backward traversal**, allowing us to reverse values between two nodes as the recursion unwinds.

### **Recursive Strategy**

1. **Advance to the Left**: We use a helper function that recurses down to the `right`-th node.
2. **Track Left Pointer**: A reference pointer (`leftPtr`) is passed through recursive calls, initially pointing to the `left`-th node.
3. **Swap During Backtracking**:
   - Once the base case is reached (when `right` reaches the end of the target range), recursion begins to backtrack.
   - During backtracking, we **swap values** between the `leftPtr` and current node.
   - `leftPtr` is moved forward each time to meet the current node from the other side.

### **Why This Works**

- The forward movement of the `leftPtr` and the backward progression of the recursion meet in the middle—exactly like array pointers.
- By halting swaps when the two pointers meet or cross, we preserve the boundaries of the reversed section.
- **No auxiliary data structure is needed**, and the recursion stack elegantly handles tracking the second pointer.

### **Edge Cases Considered**

- If `left == right`: No changes are needed.
- If the list has only one node: The base case protects against unnecessary recursion.
- If the list is reversed entirely: The method works the same as with any subrange.

## **Visual Intuition Example**

### Step 0. The input list, output list, and arguments

Given the following list:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 2 -> 10 -> 1 -> 8 -> 6
```

and the following arguments:

- `head` = 7
- `left` = 3
- `right` = 6.

The final list is: 

```text
7 -> 9 -> 8 -> 1 -> 10 -> 2 -> 6
```

---

The sublist starts at position **3** and ends at position **6**:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 2 -> 10 -> 1 -> 8 -> 6
           ↑         ↑
         left      right
```

We're reversing the sublist `[2, 10, 1, 8]` into `[8, 1, 10, 2]`. Therefore, the transformed list is:

```text
7 -> 9 -> 8 -> 1 -> 10 -> 2 -> 6
```

### Step 1: Initiate Recursion and Advance Pointers

![Left and Right pointers start from the head and move up together by one position](img/92-3.jpg)

At the beginning of the recursion, both the `left` and `right` pointers are positioned at the head of the linked list. Since we aim to reverse a sublist from position `left` to `right`, the first recursive call sets this process in motion.

In this step:
- The recursion is invoked with updated indices: both `m` and `n` are decremented by 1.
- As part of this descent, each pointer advances one node forward in the list using `node = node.next`.

This movement continues until the base case is reached, where the `right` pointer lands on the final node of the segment to reverse.


## **Algorithm**

This recursive algorithm reverses a sublist of a singly linked list from position `left` to `right`. The recursion simulates a two-pointer reversal strategy without the use of backward pointers or indices.

### **Step-by-Step**

1. **Initialize State**:
- Define two global/external variables:
  - `leftPtr`: Points to the `left`-th node (moves forward during backtracking).
  - `stopFlag`: A boolean to halt swaps once pointers meet or cross.

2. **Advance to the Left Node**:
- In the driver function (e.g., `reverseBetween`), traverse the list to position `left` and assign it to `leftPtr`.

3. **Define the Recursive Function**:
- Create a helper function (e.g., `recurse(m, n, rightNode)`) that takes:
  - `m`: current left index,
  - `n`: current right index,
  - `rightNode`: pointer starting from head and moving rightward.
- This function:
  - Recursively descends until `n == 1`, progressing `rightNode` forward and decrementing `n`.
  - Meanwhile, `leftPtr` is advanced until `m == 1`.

4. **Swapping During Backtracking**:
- After reaching the base case (`n == 1`), begin backtracking:
  - Swap values between `leftPtr` and `rightNode`.
  - Advance `leftPtr` using `leftPtr = leftPtr.next`.
- On each recursive unwind:
  - Continue swapping unless:
    - `rightNode == leftPtr` (odd-sized sublist, pointers meet).
    - `rightNode.next == leftPtr` (even-sized sublist, pointers cross).
  - When either condition is met, set `stopFlag = true` to halt further swaps.

5. **Driver Function**:
  - Accepts `head`, `left`, and `right`.
  - Advances a traversal pointer to the `left`-th node and assigns it to `leftPtr`.
  - Calls the recursive helper with `(right - left + 1)` as the depth.
  - Returns the modified `head`.

### **Key Mechanics**
- **Pointer Simulation**: Forward traversal is done by `leftPtr`, while backward movement is simulated by recursion backtracking.
- **Value Swapping**: Only node values are swapped—no structural changes.
- **Stop Conditions**: Ensure termination to prevent over-swapping and maintain list integrity.

### **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
# Global state
leftPointer = null
stopSwapping = false

function reverseBetween(head, left, right):
  global leftPointer, stopSwapping
  leftPointer = head

  # Move leftPointer to the left-th node
  for i from 1 to left - 1:
    leftPointer = leftPointer.next

  # Start recursion from the head node, traversing to the right-th node
  recurse(head, right - left + 1)

  return head

function recurse(currentRightNode, depth):
  global leftPointer, stopSwapping

  if depth == 1:
    return

  # Recursive descent
  recurse(currentRightNode.next, depth - 1)

  # Stop condition: pointers have met or crossed
  if stopSwapping or currentRightNode == leftPointer or currentRightNode.next == leftPointer:
      stopSwapping = true
    return

  # Swap values between currentRightNode and leftPointer
  temp = leftPointer.value
  leftPointer.value = currentRightNode.value
  currentRightNode.value = temp

  # Move leftPointer forward
  leftPointer = leftPointer.next
```
