LeetCode/100-same-tree/problem.md, before:

# 100. Same Tree

<p>Given the roots of two binary trees <code>p</code> and <code>q</code>, write a function to check if they are the same or not.</p>

<p>Two binary trees are considered the same if they are structurally identical, and the nodes have the same value.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-1.jpg" style="width: 622px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2,3], q = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> true
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-2.jpg" style="width: 382px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2], q = [1,null,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-3.jpg" style="width: 622px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2,1], q = [1,1,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
	<li>The number of nodes in both trees is in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>.</li>
	<li><code>-10<sup>4</sup> &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
</ul>


<br>

---

# Solution

- [Recursive Approach](#recursive-approach)

## Binary Tree Overview

**Key Points**:

- **Root Node**: The topmost node of the tree.
- **Child Nodes**: Each node can have up to two children, referred to as the left and right child.
- **Leaf Nodes**: Nodes with no children.
- **Depth/Height**: The length of the path from the root to the deepest leaf node.
- **Binary Search Tree (BST)**: A special type of binary tree where the left child's value is less than the parent's value, and the right child's value is greater than the parent's value.
- **Traversal Methods**: Methods to visit nodes in a binary tree, including In-order, Pre-order, and Post-order.

### Binary Tree in Array Form

A binary tree can be represented using an array, where the array elements correspond to the nodes of the tree. This representation is particularly useful for complete binary trees.

Representing a binary tree in array form is a simple and efficient method for complete binary trees. It leverages the properties of array indexing to quickly access parent and child nodes, making it suitable for certain applications where the tree structure is predictable and does not change dynamically.

#### Key Points:

1. **Root Node**:
   - The root node of the binary tree is stored at index 0 of the array.

2. **Left Child**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its left child is located at index `2i + 1`.

3. **Right Child**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its right child is located at index `2i + 2`.

4. **Parent Node**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its parent is located at index `(i - 1) / 2`.

#### Example:

Consider the following binary tree:

```code
      1
    /   \
   2     3
  / \   / \
 4   5 6   7
```

This binary tree can be represented in an array as:

```code
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
```

#### Detailed Explanation:

1. **Index 0**: The root node `1` is stored at index `0`.
2. **Indices 1 & 2**: The left child `2` and right child `3` of the root node are stored at indices `1` and `2` respectively.
3. **Indices 3 & 4**: The left child `4` and right child `5` of node `2` are stored at indices `3` and `4` respectively.
4. **Indices 5 & 6**: The left child `6` and right child `7` of node `3` are stored at indices `5` and `6` respectively.

#### Benefits:

- **Memory Efficiency**: For complete binary trees, this representation avoids the need for storing pointers to child nodes.
- **Ease of Access**: It allows for direct access to nodes using array indexing, which can simplify algorithms for traversal and manipulation.

#### Limitations:

- **Sparse Trees**: For binary trees that are not complete, this representation may lead to wasted space in the array.
- **Fixed Size**: The size of the array needs to be known in advance, which can be a limitation for dynamically growing trees.

# Recursive Approach

## **Intuition**

The simplest strategy here is to use recursion. The idea is to compare each node of the two trees. 

1. **Base Case**:
    - If both nodes are `null`, return `true`. This means both trees are structurally identical up to this point.
    - If one of the nodes is `null` and the other is not, return `false`. This means the trees are not structurally identical.

2. **Recursive Case**:
    - Check if the values of the current nodes are equal.
    - If equal, recursively check the left subtree and right subtree.
    - If both subtrees are identical, return `true`; otherwise, return `false`.

Commit message:

feat(#100): Add algorithm for recursive approach

LeetCode/100-same-tree/problem.md, after:

# 100. Same Tree

<p>Given the roots of two binary trees <code>p</code> and <code>q</code>, write a function to check if they are the same or not.</p>

<p>Two binary trees are considered the same if they are structurally identical, and the nodes have the same value.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-1.jpg" style="width: 622px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2,3], q = [1,2,3]
<strong>Output:</strong> true
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-2.jpg" style="width: 382px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2], q = [1,null,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
</pre>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>
<img alt="" src="img/100-3.jpg" style="width: 622px; height: 182px;">
<pre><strong>Input:</strong> p = [1,2,1], q = [1,1,2]
<strong>Output:</strong> false
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li>The number of nodes in both trees is in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>.</li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>4</sup> &lt;= Node.val &lt;= 10<sup>4</sup></code></li>
</ul>

<br>

---

# Solution

- [Recursive Approach](#recursive-approach)

## Binary Tree Overview

**Key Points**:

- **Root Node**: The topmost node of the tree.
- **Child Nodes**: Each node can have up to two children, referred to as the left and right child.
- **Leaf Nodes**: Nodes with no children.
- **Depth/Height**: The length of the path from the root to the deepest leaf node.
- **Binary Search Tree (BST)**: A special type of binary tree where the left child's value is less than the parent's value, and the right child's value is greater than the parent's value.
- **Traversal Methods**: Methods to visit nodes in a binary tree, including In-order, Pre-order, and Post-order.

### Binary Tree in Array Form

A binary tree can be represented using an array, where the array elements correspond to the nodes of the tree. This representation is particularly useful for complete binary trees.

Representing a binary tree in array form is a simple and efficient method for complete binary trees. It leverages the properties of array indexing to quickly access parent and child nodes, making it suitable for certain applications where the tree structure is predictable and does not change dynamically.

#### Key Points:

1. **Root Node**:
   - The root node of the binary tree is stored at index 0 of the array.

2. **Left Child**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its left child is located at index `2i + 1`.

3. **Right Child**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its right child is located at index `2i + 2`.

4. **Parent Node**:
   - For a node at index `i`, its parent is located at index `(i - 1) / 2`.

#### Example:

Consider the following binary tree:

```code
      1
    /   \
   2     3
  / \   / \
 4   5 6   7
```

This binary tree can be represented in an array as:

```code
[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7]
```

#### Detailed Explanation:

1. **Index 0**: The root node `1` is stored at index `0`.
2. **Indices 1 & 2**: The left child `2` and right child `3` of the root node are stored at indices `1` and `2` respectively.
3. **Indices 3 & 4**: The left child `4` and right child `5` of node `2` are stored at indices `3` and `4` respectively.
4. **Indices 5 & 6**: The left child `6` and right child `7` of node `3` are stored at indices `5` and `6` respectively.

#### Benefits:

- **Memory Efficiency**: For complete binary trees, this representation avoids the need for storing pointers to child nodes.
- **Ease of Access**: It allows for direct access to nodes using array indexing, which can simplify algorithms for traversal and manipulation.

#### Limitations:

- **Sparse Trees**: For binary trees that are not complete, this representation may lead to wasted space in the array.
- **Fixed Size**: The size of the array needs to be known in advance, which can be a limitation for dynamically growing trees.

# Recursive Approach

## **Intuition**

The simplest strategy here is to use recursion. The idea is to compare each node of the two trees. 

1. **Base Case**:
    - If both nodes are `null`, return `true`. This means both trees are structurally identical up to this point.
    - If one of the nodes is `null` and the other is not, return `false`. This means the trees are not structurally identical.

2. **Recursive Case**:
    - Check if the values of the current nodes are equal.
    - If equal, recursively check the left subtree and right subtree.
    - If both subtrees are identical, return `true`; otherwise, return `false`.

## **Algorithm**

1. **Base Cases**:
    - If both nodes `p` and `q` are `null`, return `true`.
    - If one of the nodes is `null` and the other is not, return `false`.
2. **Check Values**:
    - If the values of the nodes `p` and `q` are not equal, return `false`.
3. **Recursive Calls**:
    - Recursively check the left children of both nodes.
    - Recursively check the right children of both nodes.
    - Return `true` if both recursive calls return `true`.

### Step-by-Step Algorithm

1. Check if both nodes `p` and `q` are `null`. If they are, return `true`.
2. If one of the nodes is `null` and the other is not, return `false`.
3. If the values of the nodes `p` and `q` are not equal, return `false`.
4. Recursively check the left children of `p` and `q`.
5. Recursively check the right children of `p` and `q`.
6. Return `true` if both recursive checks return `true`, otherwise return `false`.
