LeetCode/217-contains-duplicate/problem.md, before:

# 217. Contains Duplicate

<p>Given an integer array <code>nums</code>, return <code>true</code> if any value appears <strong>at least twice</strong> in the array, and return <code>false</code> if every element is distinct.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,2,3,1]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">true</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>The element 1 occurs at the indices 0 and 3.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,2,3,4]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">false</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>All elements are distinct.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,1,1,3,3,4,3,2,4,2]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">true</span></p>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Hash Table Approach](#hash-table-approach)
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

---

## **Problem Overview: Contains Duplicate**

## Description

Given an integer array `nums`, return `true` if **any value appears at least twice** in the array. Return `false` if every element is **distinct**.

## Examples

### Example 1
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 2, 3, 1]`  
**Output:**  
`true`  
**Explanation:**  
The element `1` appears more than once (indices 0 and 3).

### Example 2  
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 2, 3, 4]`  
**Output:**  
`false`  
**Explanation:**  
All elements are distinct.

### Example 3  
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 1, 1, 3, 3, 4, 3, 2, 4, 2]`  
**Output:**  
`true`  
**Explanation:**  
Several elements (like `1`, `3`, `4`, and `2`) appear more than once.

## Constraints

- `1 <= nums.length <= 10⁵`
- `-10⁹ <= nums[i] <= 10⁹`

# Hash Table Approach

Given an array of integers, we need to determine if any element appears more than once. If any value repeats, we return `true`; otherwise, we return `false`.

## Intuition

Searching for duplicates in an unsorted array with brute force would typically require comparing each element with every other element—an O(n²) operation. Instead, we can greatly reduce time complexity by utilizing a **hash table** (or a set), which allows:

- **Constant-time average lookup (O(1))**
- **Constant-time average insert (O(1))**

This makes hash tables particularly suitable for problems that involve fast membership checks.

As we iterate over the array:
- If the current element is **already present** in the hash table, we have found a duplicate → return `true`
- Otherwise, we **store** the element in the hash table and continue

This technique ensures we only traverse the list once while performing constant-time operations, achieving **linear time complexity O(n)** with **space complexity O(n)** in the worst case.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize an empty set to store seen elements.
2. Traverse the input array.
3. For each number:
   - If it's already in the set, return `true`.
   - Otherwise, add it to the set.
4. If the loop completes without finding duplicates, return `false`.

### **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
function containsDuplicate(nums):
    seen = empty set

    for num in nums:
        if num in seen:
            return true
        seen.add(num)

    return false
```

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

class Solution {
  public boolean containsDuplicate(int[] nums) {
    Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>(nums.length);

    for (int x : nums) {
      if (set.contains(x)) {
        return true;
      }
      set.add(x);
    }
    return false;
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function containsDuplicate(nums: number[]): boolean {
  const seen = new Set<number>();

  for (const num of nums) {
    if (seen.has(num)) {
      return true;
    }
    seen.add(num);
  }

  return false;
};

```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**

- Let `n` be the number of elements in the input array `nums`.
- We're using a hash table (e.g. `Set` in TypeScript) that provides average-case O(1) time complexity for both `.has()` and `.add()` operations.
- Input values are within the allowed range: `-10⁹ <= nums[i] <= 10⁹`, but this does not affect the asymptotic complexity due to constant-time hashing.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- In the worst case (no duplicates), we store all `n` elements in the hash table.
- Thus, auxiliary space grows linearly with the number of distinct elements → **O(n)**.

> If a duplicate is found early, actual memory usage may be much less than O(n), but big-O reflects the upper bound.

Commit message:

feat(#217): Add time complexity analysis

LeetCode/217-contains-duplicate/problem.md, after:

# 217. Contains Duplicate

<p>Given an integer array <code>nums</code>, return <code>true</code> if any value appears <strong>at least twice</strong> in the array, and return <code>false</code> if every element is distinct.</p>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,2,3,1]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">true</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>The element 1 occurs at the indices 0 and 3.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 2:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,2,3,4]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">false</span></p>

<p><strong>Explanation:</strong></p>

<p>All elements are distinct.</p>
</div>

<p><strong class="example">Example 3:</strong></p>

<div class="example-block">
<p><strong>Input:</strong> <span class="example-io">nums = [1,1,1,3,3,4,3,2,4,2]</span></p>

<p><strong>Output:</strong> <span class="example-io">true</span></p>
</div>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>1 &lt;= nums.length &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
  <li><code>-10<sup>9</sup> &lt;= nums[i] &lt;= 10<sup>9</sup></code></li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Hash Table Approach](#hash-table-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

---

## **Problem Overview: Contains Duplicate**

## Description

Given an integer array `nums`, return `true` if **any value appears at least twice** in the array. Return `false` if every element is **distinct**.

## Examples

### Example 1
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 2, 3, 1]`  
**Output:**  
`true`  
**Explanation:**  
The element `1` appears more than once (indices 0 and 3).

### Example 2  
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 2, 3, 4]`  
**Output:**  
`false`  
**Explanation:**  
All elements are distinct.

### Example 3  
**Input:**  
`nums = [1, 1, 1, 3, 3, 4, 3, 2, 4, 2]`  
**Output:**  
`true`  
**Explanation:**  
Several elements (like `1`, `3`, `4`, and `2`) appear more than once.

## Constraints

- `1 <= nums.length <= 10⁵`
- `-10⁹ <= nums[i] <= 10⁹`

# Hash Table Approach

Given an array of integers, we need to determine if any element appears more than once. If any value repeats, we return `true`; otherwise, we return `false`.

## Intuition

Searching for duplicates in an unsorted array with brute force would typically require comparing each element with every other element—an O(n²) operation. Instead, we can greatly reduce time complexity by utilizing a **hash table** (or a set), which allows:

- **Constant-time average lookup (O(1))**
- **Constant-time average insert (O(1))**

This makes hash tables particularly suitable for problems that involve fast membership checks.

As we iterate over the array:
- If the current element is **already present** in the hash table, we have found a duplicate → return `true`
- Otherwise, we **store** the element in the hash table and continue

This technique ensures we only traverse the list once while performing constant-time operations, achieving **linear time complexity O(n)** with **space complexity O(n)** in the worst case.

## Algorithm

1. Initialize an empty set to store seen elements.
2. Traverse the input array.
3. For each number:
   - If it's already in the set, return `true`.
   - Otherwise, add it to the set.
4. If the loop completes without finding duplicates, return `false`.

### **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
function containsDuplicate(nums):
    seen = empty set

    for num in nums:
        if num in seen:
            return true
        seen.add(num)

    return false
```

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.HashSet;
import java.util.Set;

class Solution {
  public boolean containsDuplicate(int[] nums) {
    Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>(nums.length);

    for (int x : nums) {
      if (set.contains(x)) {
        return true;
      }
      set.add(x);
    }
    return false;
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
function containsDuplicate(nums: number[]): boolean {
  const seen = new Set<number>();

  for (const num of nums) {
    if (seen.has(num)) {
      return true;
    }
    seen.add(num);
  }

  return false;
};
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**

- Let `n` be the number of elements in the input array `nums`.
- We're using a hash table (e.g. `Set` in TypeScript) that provides average-case O(1) time complexity for both `.has()` and `.add()` operations.
- Input values are within the allowed range: `-10⁹ <= nums[i] <= 10⁹`, but this does not affect the asymptotic complexity due to constant-time hashing.

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n)`

- We iterate through the entire array once → **O(n)** iterations.
- Each lookup (`seen.has(num)`) and insertion (`seen.add(num)`) is O(1) on average.
- Therefore, the total time complexity is **O(n)** in the average case.

> Worst-case time complexity could be higher (e.g. O(n²)) if there are significant hash collisions, but this is rare with good hash function implementations. For typical inputs, the performance remains linear.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

- In the worst case (no duplicates), we store all `n` elements in the hash table.
- Thus, auxiliary space grows linearly with the number of distinct elements → **O(n)**.

> If a duplicate is found early, actual memory usage may be much less than O(n), but big-O reflects the upper bound.
