LeetCode/295-find-median-from-data-stream/problem.md, before:

# 295. Find Median from Data Stream

<p>The <strong>median</strong> is the middle value in an ordered integer list. If the size of the list is even, there is no middle value, and the median is the mean of the two middle values.</p>

<ul>
  <li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3,4]</code>, the median is <code>3</code>.</li>
  <li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3]</code>, the median is <code>(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Implement the MedianFinder class:</p>

<ul>
  <li><code>MedianFinder()</code> initializes the <code>MedianFinder</code> object.</li>
  <li><code>void addNum(int num)</code> adds the integer <code>num</code> from the data stream to the data structure.</li>
  <li><code>double findMedian()</code> returns the median of all elements so far. Answers within <code>10<sup>-5</sup></code> of the actual answer will be accepted.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input</strong>
["MedianFinder", "addNum", "addNum", "findMedian", "addNum", "findMedian"]
[[], [1], [2], [], [3], []]
<strong>Output</strong>
[null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]

<strong>Explanation</strong>
MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5 (i.e., (1 + 2) / 2)
medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr[1, 2, 3]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>-10<sup>5</sup> &lt;= num &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
  <li>There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
  <li>At most <code>5 * 10<sup>4</sup></code> calls will be made to <code>addNum</code> and <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Follow up:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li>If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
  <li>If <code>99%</code> of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Naive Approach](#naive-approach)
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

# Problem Overview: Find Median from Data Stream

## Problem Description

The **median** is the middle value in an ordered integer list.  
If the size of the list is even, the median is the mean of the two middle values.

### Examples:
- For `arr = [2,3,4]`, the median is `3`.
- For `arr = [2,3]`, the median is `(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5`.

## Implement the `MedianFinder` class

### Methods:
- `MedianFinder()`  
  Initializes the `MedianFinder` object.

- `void addNum(int num)`  
  Adds the integer `num` from the data stream to the data structure.

- `double findMedian()`  
  Returns the median of all elements so far.  
  Answers within `10^-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.

## Example

```plaintext
Input:
["MedianFinder", "addNum", "addNum", "findMedian", "addNum", "findMedian"]
[[], [1], [2], [], [3], []]

Output:
[null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]
```

### Explanation:
```plaintext
MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5
medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr = [1, 2, 3]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
```

## Constraints

- -10⁵ ≤ num ≤ 10⁵  
- There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling `findMedian`.  
- At most 5 × 10⁴ calls will be made to `addNum` and `findMedian`.

## Follow-Up

- If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?
- If 99% of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?

---

# Naive Approach

## **Intuition**

The simplest way to compute the median from a stream of numbers is to store all incoming values in a resizable container (like an ArrayList). Since the median depends on the sorted order of elements, we sort the list every time `findMedian()` is called. This guarantees correctness but is inefficient for large data streams due to repeated sorting.

This approach is acceptable for small input sizes or when performance is not critical. It prioritizes simplicity over efficiency.

## **Algorithm**

1. Use an `ArrayList<Integer>` to store all incoming numbers.
2. When `addNum(int num)` is called, append the number to the list.
3. When `findMedian()` is called:
   - Sort the list in ascending order.
   - If the list size is odd, return the middle element.
   - If the list size is even, return the average of the two middle elements.

## **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
class MedianFinder: Initialize empty list

method addNum(num):
    append num to list

method findMedian():
    if list is empty:
        return 0

    sort list in ascending order
    size = length of list

    if size is odd:
        return list[size // 2]
    else:
        return (list[size // 2 - 1] + list[size // 2]) / 2.0
```

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

class MedianFinder {
  ArrayList<Integer> list;

  // Initializes MedianFinder object
  public MedianFinder() {
    this.list = new ArrayList<>();
  }

  // Adds integer num from the data stream to data structure
  public void addNum(int num) {
    this.list.add(num);
  }

  // Returns median of all elements so far
  public double findMedian() {
    if (list.isEmpty()) { return 0; }

    this.list.sort((a, b) -> Integer.compare(a, b));

    int size = list.size();

    return (size & 1) == 1 
      ? list.get(size / 2)
      : ((list.get(size / 2 - 1) + list.get(size / 2)) / 2.0);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
class MedianFinder {
  private list: number[];

  constructor() {
    this.list = [];
  }

  addNum(num: number): void {
    this.list.push(num);
  }

  findMedian(): number {
    if (this.list.length === 0) return 0;

    this.list.sort((a, b) => a - b);

    const size = this.list.length;
    const mid = Math.floor(size / 2);

    return size % 2 === 1
      ? this.list[mid]
      : (this.list[mid - 1] + this.list[mid]) / 2;
  }
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**

- Let `n` be the amount of elements in the data stream
- **Input Size is Manageable**: This approach assumes that the number of elements (`n`) is small enough that repeated sorting is not a performance bottleneck.
- **Sorting is Stable and Deterministic**: The built-in sort function is assumed to be stable and consistent across calls.
- **Median is Always Requested After Insertions**: The algorithm does not cache or optimize median retrieval, so sorting is repeated on every call to `findMedian()`.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- **Linear-Space Storage**: The algorithm stores all incoming numbers in a resizable array (`ArrayList` or `number[]`), which grows linearly with the number of elements.
- **No Auxiliary Structures**: Aside from the main list, no additional data structures are used, keeping space usage minimal but proportional to input size.

Commit message:

feat(#295): Add naive approach time complexity

LeetCode/295-find-median-from-data-stream/problem.md, after:

# 295. Find Median from Data Stream

<p>The <strong>median</strong> is the middle value in an ordered integer list. If the size of the list is even, there is no middle value, and the median is the mean of the two middle values.</p>

<ul>
  <li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3,4]</code>, the median is <code>3</code>.</li>
  <li>For example, for <code>arr = [2,3]</code>, the median is <code>(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>Implement the MedianFinder class:</p>

<ul>
  <li><code>MedianFinder()</code> initializes the <code>MedianFinder</code> object.</li>
  <li><code>void addNum(int num)</code> adds the integer <code>num</code> from the data stream to the data structure.</li>
  <li><code>double findMedian()</code> returns the median of all elements so far. Answers within <code>10<sup>-5</sup></code> of the actual answer will be accepted.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong class="example">Example 1:</strong></p>

<pre><strong>Input</strong>
["MedianFinder", "addNum", "addNum", "findMedian", "addNum", "findMedian"]
[[], [1], [2], [], [3], []]
<strong>Output</strong>
[null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]

<strong>Explanation</strong>
MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5 (i.e., (1 + 2) / 2)
medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr[1, 2, 3]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
</pre>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Constraints:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li><code>-10<sup>5</sup> &lt;= num &lt;= 10<sup>5</sup></code></li>
  <li>There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
  <li>At most <code>5 * 10<sup>4</sup></code> calls will be made to <code>addNum</code> and <code>findMedian</code>.</li>
</ul>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><strong>Follow up:</strong></p>

<ul>
  <li>If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
  <li>If <code>99%</code> of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range <code>[0, 100]</code>, how would you optimize your solution?</li>
</ul>

---

# Solution

- [Naive Approach](#naive-approach)
  - **Time Complexity**: `O(n log n)`
  - **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`

# Problem Overview: Find Median from Data Stream

## Problem Description

The **median** is the middle value in an ordered integer list.  
If the size of the list is even, the median is the mean of the two middle values.

### Examples:
- For `arr = [2,3,4]`, the median is `3`.
- For `arr = [2,3]`, the median is `(2 + 3) / 2 = 2.5`.

## Implement the `MedianFinder` class

### Methods:
- `MedianFinder()`  
  Initializes the `MedianFinder` object.

- `void addNum(int num)`  
  Adds the integer `num` from the data stream to the data structure.

- `double findMedian()`  
  Returns the median of all elements so far.  
  Answers within `10^-5` of the actual answer will be accepted.

## Example

```plaintext
Input:
["MedianFinder", "addNum", "addNum", "findMedian", "addNum", "findMedian"]
[[], [1], [2], [], [3], []]

Output:
[null, null, null, 1.5, null, 2.0]
```

### Explanation:
```plaintext
MedianFinder medianFinder = new MedianFinder();
medianFinder.addNum(1);    // arr = [1]
medianFinder.addNum(2);    // arr = [1, 2]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 1.5
medianFinder.addNum(3);    // arr = [1, 2, 3]
medianFinder.findMedian(); // return 2.0
```

## Constraints

- -10⁵ ≤ num ≤ 10⁵  
- There will be at least one element in the data structure before calling `findMedian`.  
- At most 5 × 10⁴ calls will be made to `addNum` and `findMedian`.

## Follow-Up

- If all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?
- If 99% of all integer numbers from the stream are in the range `[0, 100]`, how would you optimize your solution?

---

# Naive Approach

## **Intuition**

The simplest way to compute the median from a stream of numbers is to store all incoming values in a resizable container (like an ArrayList). Since the median depends on the sorted order of elements, we sort the list every time `findMedian()` is called. This guarantees correctness but is inefficient for large data streams due to repeated sorting.

This approach is acceptable for small input sizes or when performance is not critical. It prioritizes simplicity over efficiency.

## **Algorithm**

1. Use an `ArrayList<Integer>` to store all incoming numbers.
2. When `addNum(int num)` is called, append the number to the list.
3. When `findMedian()` is called:
   - Sort the list in ascending order.
   - If the list size is odd, return the middle element.
   - If the list size is even, return the average of the two middle elements.

## **Pseudocode**

```plaintext
class MedianFinder: Initialize empty list

method addNum(num):
    append num to list

method findMedian():
    if list is empty:
        return 0

    sort list in ascending order
    size = length of list

    if size is odd:
        return list[size // 2]
    else:
        return (list[size // 2 - 1] + list[size // 2]) / 2.0
```

## **Implementation**

### Java

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

class MedianFinder {
  ArrayList<Integer> list;

  // Initializes MedianFinder object
  public MedianFinder() {
    this.list = new ArrayList<>();
  }

  // Adds integer num from the data stream to data structure
  public void addNum(int num) {
    this.list.add(num);
  }

  // Returns median of all elements so far
  public double findMedian() {
    if (list.isEmpty()) { return 0; }

    this.list.sort((a, b) -> Integer.compare(a, b));

    int size = list.size();

    return (size & 1) == 1 
      ? list.get(size / 2)
      : ((list.get(size / 2 - 1) + list.get(size / 2)) / 2.0);
  }
}
```

### TypeScript

```typescript
class MedianFinder {
  private list: number[];

  constructor() {
    this.list = [];
  }

  addNum(num: number): void {
    this.list.push(num);
  }

  findMedian(): number {
    if (this.list.length === 0) return 0;

    this.list.sort((a, b) => a - b);

    const size = this.list.length;
    const mid = Math.floor(size / 2);

    return size % 2 === 1
      ? this.list[mid]
      : (this.list[mid - 1] + this.list[mid]) / 2;
  }
}
```

## **Complexity Analysis**

### **Assumptions**

- Let `n` be the amount of elements in the data stream
- **Input Size is Manageable**: This approach assumes that the number of elements (`n`) is small enough that repeated sorting is not a performance bottleneck.
- **Sorting is Stable and Deterministic**: The built-in sort function is assumed to be stable and consistent across calls.
- **Median is Always Requested After Insertions**: The algorithm does not cache or optimize median retrieval, so sorting is repeated on every call to `findMedian()`.

### **Time Complexity**: `O(n log n)`
- **Sorting Dominates**: Each call to `findMedian()` triggers a full sort of the list, which takes `O(n log n)` time where `n` is the number of elements added so far.
- **Insertion is Constant-Time**: The `addNum()` method simply appends to the list, which takes `O(1)` time per insertion.
- **Median Retrieval is Constant-Time**: After sorting, accessing one or two middle elements takes `O(1)` time.

### **Space Complexity**: `O(n)`
- **Linear-Space Storage**: The algorithm stores all incoming numbers in a resizable array (`ArrayList` or `number[]`), which grows linearly with the number of elements.
- **No Auxiliary Structures**: Aside from the main list, no additional data structures are used, keeping space usage minimal but proportional to input size.
